id	title	pub_year	source	abstract
1	AI Anxiety	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Recently a number of well-known public figures have expressed concern about the future development of artificial intelligence (AI), by noting that AI could get out of control and affect human beings and society in disastrous ways. Many of these cautionary notes are alarmist and unrealistic, and while there has been some push-back on these concerns, the deep flaws in the thinking that leads to them have not been called out. Much of the fear and trepidation is based on misunderstanding and confusion about what AI is and can ever be. In this work we identify 3 factors that contribute to this ""AI anxiety"": an exclusive focus on AI programs that leaves humans out of the picture, confusion about autonomy in computational entities and in humans, and an inaccurate conception of technological development. With this analysis we argue that there are good reasons for anxiety about AI but not for the reasons typically given by AI alarmists."
2	"A ""Gold-Centric"" Implementation of Open Access: Hybrid Journals, the ""Total Cost of Publication,"" and Policy Development in the UK and Beyond"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This paper reports analysis of data from higher education institutions in the UK on their experience of the open-access (OA) publishing market working within a policy environment favoring ""Gold"" OA (OA publishing in journals). It models the ""total cost of publication""comprising costs of journal subscriptions, OA article-processing charges (APCs), and new administrative costs-for a sample of 24 institutions. APCs are shown to constitute 12% of the ""total cost of publication,"" APC administration, 1%, and subscriptions, 87% (for a sample of seven publishers). APC expenditure in institutions rose between 2012 and 2014 at the same time as rising subscription costs. There was disproportionately high take up of Gold options for Health and Life Sciences articles. APC prices paid varied widely, with a mean APC of 1,586 pound in 2014. ""Hybrid"" options (subscription journals also offering OA for individual articles on payment of an APC) were considerably more expensive than fully OA titles, but the data indicate a correlation between APC price and journal quality (as reflected in the citation rates of journals). The policy implications of these developments are explored, particularly in relation to hybrid OA and potential of offsetting subscription and APC costs."
3	Securing the Human: Employee Security Vulnerability Risk in Organizational Settings	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"As organizational security breaches increase, so too does the need to fully understand the human factors that lead to these breaches and take the necessary steps to minimize threats. The present study evaluates how three sets of employee characteristics (demographic, company-specific, and skills-based) predict an employee's likelihood of becoming a security breach victim. In order to move beyond traditional evaluations of security threats, which generally consider security threats individually, analyses in this paper approach security vulnerability from a more holistic approach to analyze four risk categories concurrently: phishing, passwords, bring your own device (BYOD), and company-supplied laptops. Findings from a survey of 250 employees at a medium-sized American information technology (IT) consulting firm identify higher-risk employees across the four risk areas and provide new insights into the challenges organizations face when trying to ensure the protection of company data."
4	A Multidimensional Investigation of the Effects of Publication Retraction on Scholarly Impact	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"During the past few decades, the rate of publication retractions has increased dramatically in academia. In this study, we investigate retractions from a quantitative perspective, aiming to answer two fundamental questions. One, how do retractions influence the scholarly impact of retracted papers, authors, and institutions? Two, does this influence propagate to the wider academic community through scholarly associations? Specifically, we analyzed a set of retracted articles indexed in Thomson Reuters Web of Science (WoS), and ran multiple experiments to compare changes in scholarly impact against a control set of nonretracted articles, authors, and institutions. We further applied the Granger Causality test to investigate whether different scientific topics are dynamically affected by retracted papers occurring within those topics. Our results show two key findings: first, the scholarly impact of retracted papers and authors significantly decreases after retraction, and the most severe impact decrease correlates with retractions based on proven, purposeful scientific misconduct; second, this retraction penalty does not seem to spread through the broader scholarly social graph, but instead has a limited and localized effect. Our findings may provide useful insights for scholars or science committees to evaluate the scholarly value of papers, authors, or institutions related to retractions."
5	Developments in Research Data Management in Academic Libraries: Towards an Understanding of Research Data Service Maturity	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article reports an international study of research data management (RDM) activities, services, and capabilities in higher education libraries. It presents the results of a survey covering higher education libraries in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, and the UK. The results indicate that libraries have provided leadership in RDM, particularly in advocacy and policy development. Service development is still limited, focused especially on advisory and consultancy services (such as data management planning support and data-related training), rather than technical services (such as provision of a data catalog, and curation of active data). Data curation skills development is underway in libraries, but skills and capabilities are not consistently in place and remain a concern. Other major challenges include resourcing, working with other support services, and achieving buy in from researchers and senior managers. Results are compared with previous studies in order to assess trends and relative maturity levels. The range of RDM activities explored in this study are positioned on a landscape maturity model, which reflects current and planned research data services and practice in academic libraries, representing a snapshot of current developments and a baseline for future research."
6	Users and Uses of a Global Union Catalog: A MixedMethods Study of WorldCat.org	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This paper presents the first large-scale investigation of the users and uses of , the world's largest bibliographic database and global union catalog. Using a mixed-methods approach involving focus group interviews with 120 participants, an online survey with 2,918 responses, and an analysis of transaction logs of approximately 15 million sessions from , the study provides a new understanding of the context for global union catalog use. We find that is accessed by a diverse population, with the three primary user groups being librarians, students, and academics. Use of the system is found to fall within three broad types of work-task (professional, academic, and leisure), and we also present an emergent taxonomy of search tasks that encompass known-item, unknown-item, and institutional information searches. Our results support the notion that union catalogs are primarily used for known-item searches, although the volume of traffic to means that unknown-item searches nonetheless represent an estimated 250,000 sessions per month. Search engine referrals account for almost half of all traffic, but although effectively connects users referred from institutional library catalogs to other libraries holding a sought item, users arriving from a search engine are less likely to connect to a library."
7	"The Effect of the "" Very Important Paper"" ( VIP) Designation in Angewandte Chemie International Edition on Citation Impact: A Propensity Score Matching Analysis"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Scientific journals publish an increasing number of articles every year. To steer readers' attention to the most important papers, journals use several techniques (e.g., lead paper). Angewandte Chemie International Edition (AC), a leading international journal in chemistry, signals high-quality papers through designating them as a very important paper (VIP). This study aims to investigate the citation impact of Communications in AC receiving the special feature VIP, both cumulated and over time. Using propensity score matching, treatment group (VIP) and control group (non-VIP) were balanced for 14 covariates to estimate the unconfounded average treatment effect on the treated for the VIP designation. Out of N = 3,011 Communications published in 2007 and 2008, N = 207 received the special feature VIP. For each Communication, data were collected from AC (e.g., referees' ratings) and from the databases Chemical Abstracts (e.g., sections) and the Web of Science (e.g., citations). The estimated unconfounded average treatment effect on the treated (that is, Communications designated as a VIP) was statistically significant and amounted to 19.83 citations. In addition, the special feature VIP fostered the cumulated annual citation growth. For instance, the time until a Communication reached its maximum annual number of citations, was reduced."
8	Information Practices for Sustainability: Role of iSchools in Achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs)	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In September 2015, the United Nations (UN) General Assembly passed a resolution identifying 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 associated targets, and countries around the world agreed to achieve these by 2030. By conducting a thematic analysis of four key UN policy documents related to sustainable development, this paper argues that alongside financial and other resources, access to, and use of, appropriate information are essential for achieving SDGs. The paper also reviews research on information and sustainability undertaken at the iSchools and the computer and human-computer interaction HCI communities. Given that the mission of iSchools is to connect people and society with the required information through the use of appropriate technologies and tools, this paper argues that iSchools can play a key role in helping people, institutions, and businesses, and thus countries around the world achieve SDGs. The paper identifies 4 broad areas of teaching and research that can help iSchools around the world prepare a trained workforce who can manage, and facilitate access to, information in specific domains and contexts. It is also argued that cooperation and collaborations among iSchools can promote a culture of sustainable information practices among university graduates and researchers in different disciplines that will pave the way for achieving SDGs in every sector."
9	Amplifying the Impact of Open Access: Wikipedia and the Diffusion of Science	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"With the rise of Wikipedia as a first-stop source for scientific information, it is important to understand whether Wikipedia draws upon the research that scientists value most. Here we identify the 250 most heavily used journals in each of 26 research fields (4,721 journals, 19.4M articles) indexed by the Scopus database, and test whether topic, academic status, and accessibility make articles from these journals more or less likely to be referenced on Wikipedia. We find that a journal's academic status (impact factor) and accessibility (open access policy) both strongly increase the probability of it being referenced on Wikipedia. Controlling for field and impact factor, the odds that an open access journal is referenced on the English Wikipedia are 47% higher compared to paywall journals. These findings provide evidence is that a major consequence of open access policies is to significantly amplify the diffusion of science, through an intermediary like Wikipedia, to a broad audience."
10	Measuring Text Difficulty Using Parse-Tree Frequency	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Text simplification often relies on dated, unproven readability formulas. As an alternative and motivated by the success of term familiarity, we test a complementary measure: grammar familiarity. Grammar familiarity is measured as the frequency of the 3rd level sentence parse tree and is useful for evaluating individual sentences. We created a database of 140K unique 3rd level parse structures by parsing and binning all 5.4M sentences in English Wikipedia. We then calculated the grammar frequencies across the corpus and created 11 frequency bins. We evaluate the measure with a user study and corpus analysis. For the user study, we selected 20 sentences randomly from each bin, controlling for sentence length and term frequency, and recruited 30 readers per sentence (N = 6,600) on Amazon Mechanical Turk. We measured actual difficulty (comprehension) using a Cloze test, perceived difficulty using a 5-point Likert scale, and time taken. Sentences with more frequent grammatical structures, even with very different surface presentations, were easier to understand, perceived as easier, and took less time to read. Outcomes from readability formulas correlated with perceived but not with actual difficulty. Our corpus analysis shows how the metric can be used to understand grammar regularity in a broad range of corpora."
11	Effects of Language and Terminology of Query Suggestions on Medical Accuracy Considering Different User Characteristics	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Searching for health information is one of the most popular activities on the web. In this domain, users often misspell or lack knowledge of the proper medical terms to use in queries. To overcome these difficulties and attempt to retrieve higher-quality content, we developed a query suggestion system that provides alternative queries combining the Portuguese or English language with lay or medico-scientific terminology. Here we evaluate this system's impact on the medical accuracy of the knowledge acquired during the search. Evaluation shows that simply providing these suggestions contributes to reduce the quantity of incorrect content. This indicates that even when suggestions are not clicked, they are useful either for subsequent queries' formulation or for interpreting search results. Clicking on suggestions, regardless of type, leads to answers with more correct content. An analysis by type of suggestion and user characteristics showed that the benefits of certain languages and terminologies are more perceptible in users with certain levels of English proficiency and health literacy. This suggests a personalization of this suggestion system toward these characteristics. Overall, the effect of language is more preponderant than the effect of terminology. Clicks on English suggestions are clearly preferable to clicks on Portuguese ones."
12	Automatic Event Detection in Microblogs Using Incremental Machine Learning	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The global popularity of microblogs has led to an increasing accumulation of large volumes of text data on microblogging platforms such as Twitter. These corpora are untapped resources to understand social expressions on diverse subjects. Microblog analysis aims to unlock the value of such expressions by discovering insights and events of significance hidden among swathes of text. Besides velocity; diversity of content, brevity, absence of structure and time-sensitivity are key challenges in microblog analysis. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised incremental machine learning and event detection technique to address these challenges. The proposed technique separates a microblog discussion into topics to address the key problem of diversity. It maintains a record of the evolution of each topic over time. Brevity, time-sensitivity and unstructured nature are addressed by these individual topic pathways which contribute to generate a temporal, topic-driven structure of a microblog discussion. The proposed event detection method continuously monitors these topic pathways using multiple domain-independent event indicators for events of significance. The autonomous nature of topic separation, topic pathway generation, new topic identification and event detection, appropriates the proposed technique for extensive applications in microblog analysis. We demonstrate these capabilities on tweets containing #microsoft and tweets containing #obama."
13	Person Entity Linking in Email With NIL Detection	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"For each specific mention of an entity found in a text, the goal of entity linking is to determine whether the referenced entity is present in an existing knowledge base, and if so to determine which KB entity is the correct referent. Entity linking has been well explored for dissemination-oriented sources such as news stories, blogs, and microblog posts, but the limited work to date on conversational sources such as email or text chat has not yet attempted to determine when the referent entity is not in the knowledge base (a task known as NIL detection). This article presents a supervised machine learning system for linking named mentions of people in email messages to a collection-specific knowledge base, and that is also capable of NIL detection. This system learns from manually annotated training examples to leverage a rich set of features. The entity linking accuracy for entities present in the knowledge base is substantially and significantly better than the best previously reported results on the Enron email collection, comparable accuracy is reported for the challenging NIL detection task, and these results are for the first time replicated on a second email collection from a different source with comparable results."
14	Online Disclosure of Illicit Information: Information Behaviors in Two Drug Forums	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Although people disclose illicit activities such as drug use online, we currently know little about what information people choose to disclose and share or whether there are differences in behavior depending on the illicit activity being disclosed. This exploratory mixed-methods study examines how people discuss and disclose the use of two different drugsmarijuana and opioidson Reddit. In this study, hermeneutic content analysis is employed to describe the type of comments people make in forums dedicated to discussions about illicit drugs. With inductive analysis, seven categories of comments were identified: disclosure, instruction and advice, culture, community norms, moralizing, legality, and banter. Our subsequent quantitative analysis indicates that although the amounts of disclosure are similar in each subreddit, there are more instances of instruction and advice in discussions about opiates, and more examples of banter in comments about marijuana use. In fact, both subreddits have high rates of banter. We argue that banter fosters disclosure in both subreddits, and that banter and disclosure are linked with information-seeking behaviors in online forums. This work has implications for future explorations of disclosure online and for public health interventions aimed at disseminating credible information about drug use to at-risk individuals."
15	Format Technology Lifecycle Analysis	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The lifecycles of format technology have been a defining concern for digital stewardship research and practice. However, little evidence exists to provide robust methods for assessing the state of any given format technology and describing its evolution over time. This article introduces relevant models from diffusion theory and market research and presents a replicable analysis method to compute models of technology evolution. Data cleansing and the combination of multiple data sources enable the application of nonlinear regression to estimate the parameters of the Bass diffusion model on format technology market lifecycles. Through its application to a longitudinal data set from the UK Web Archive, we demonstrate that the method produces reliable results and show that the Bass model can be used to describe format lifecycles. By analyzing adoption patterns across market segments, new insights are inferred about how the diffusion of formats and products such as applications occurs over time. The analysis provides a stepping stone to a more robust and evidence-based approach to model technology evolution."
16	"Citations, Mandates, and Money: Author Motivations to Publish in Chemistry Hybrid Open Access Journals"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Hybrid open access refers to articles freely accessible via the Internet but which originate from an academic journal that provides most of its content via subscription. The effect of hybrid open access on citation counts and author behavior in the field of chemistry is something that has not been widely studied. We compared 814 open access articles and 27,621 subscription access articles published from 2006 through 2011 in American Chemical Society journals. As expected, the 2 comparison groups are not equal in all respects. Cumulative citation data were analyzed from years 2-5 following an article's publication date. A citation advantage for open access articles was correlated with the journal impact factor (IF) in low and medium IF journals, but not in high IF journals. Open access articles have a 24% higher mean citation rate than their subscription counterparts in low IF journals (confidence limits 8-42%, p = .0022) and similarly, a 26% higher mean citation rate in medium IF journals (confidence limits 14-40%, p < .001). Open access articles in high IF journals had no significant difference compared to subscription access articles (13% lower mean citation rate, confidence limits -27-3%, p = .10). These results are correlative, not causative, and may not be completely due to an open access effect. Authors of the open access articles were also surveyed to determine why they chose a hybrid open access option, paid the required article processing charge, and whether they believed it was money well spent. Authors primarily chose open access because of funding mandates; however, most considered the money well spent because open access increases information access to the scientific community and the general public, and potentially increases citations to their scholarship."
17	Mendeley Readership as a Filtering Tool to Identify Highly Cited Publications	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study presents a large-scale analysis of the distribution and presence of Mendeley readership scores over time and across disciplines. We study whether Mendeley readership scores (RS) can identify highly cited publications more effectively than journal citation scores (JCS). Web of Science (WoS) publications with digital object identifiers (DOIs) published during the period 2004-2013 and across five major scientific fields were analyzed. The main result of this study shows that RS are more effective (in terms of precision/recall values) than JCS to identify highly cited publications across all fields of science and publication years. The findings also show that 86.5% of all the publications are covered by Mendeley and have at least one reader. Also, the share of publications with Mendeley RS is increasing from 84% in 2004 to 89% in 2009, and decreasing from 88% in 2010 to 82% in 2013. However, it is noted that publications from 2010 onwards exhibit on average a higher density of readership versus citation scores. This indicates that compared to citation scores, RS are more prevalent for recent publications and hence they could work as an early indicator of research impact. These findings highlight the potential and value of Mendeley as a tool for scientometric purposes and particularly as a relevant tool to identify highly cited publications."
18	Clinical information extraction using small data: An active learning approach based on sequence representations and word embeddings	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article demonstrates the benefits of using sequence representations based on word embeddings to inform the seed selection and sample selection processes in an active learning pipeline for clinical information extraction. Seed selection refers to choosing an initial sample set to label to form an initial learning model. Sample selection refers to selecting informative samples to update the model at each iteration of the active learning process. Compared to supervised machine learning approaches, active learning offers the opportunity to build statistical classifiers with a reduced amount of training samples that require manual annotation. Reducing the manual annotation effort can support automating the clinical information extraction process. This is particularly beneficial in the clinical domain, where manual annotation is a time-consuming and costly task, as it requires extensive labor from clinical experts. Our empirical findings demonstrate that (a) using sequence representations along with the length of sequence for seed selection shows potential towards more effective initial models, and (b) using sequence representations for sample selection leads to significantly lower manual annotation efforts, with up to 3% and 6% fewer tokens and concepts requiring annotation, respectively, compared to state-of-the-art query strategies."
19	What makes an effective clinical query and querier?	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In this paper, we perform an in-depth study into how clinicians represent their information needs and the influence this has on information retrieval (IR) effectiveness. While much research in IR has considered the effectiveness of IR systems, there is still a significant gap in the understanding of how users contribute to the effectiveness of these systems. The paper aims to contribute to this by studying how clinicians search for information. Multiple representations of an information needfrom verbose patient case descriptions to ad-hoc querieswere considered in order to understand their effect on retrieval. Four clinicians provided queries and performed relevance assessment to form a test collection used in this study. The different query formulation strategies of each clinician, and their effectiveness, were investigated. The results show that query formulation had more impact on retrieval effectiveness than the particular retrieval systems used. The most effective queries were short, ad-hoc keyword queries. Different clinicians were observed to consistently adopt specific query formulation strategies. The most effective queriers were those who, given their information need, inferred novel keywords most likely to appear in relevant documents. This study reveals aspects of how people search within the clinical domain. This can help inform the development of new models and methods that specifically focus on the query formulation process to improve retrieval effectiveness."
20	Stochastic reranking of biomedical search results based on extracted entities	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Health-related information is nowadays accessible from many sources and is one of the most searched-for topics on the Internet. However, existing search systems often fail to provide users with a good list of medical search results, especially for classic (keyword-based) queries. In this article we elaborate on whether and how we can exploit biomedicine-related entities from the emerging Web of Data for improving (through reranking) the results returned by a search system. The aim is to promote relevant but low-ranked hits containing entities that are important to the current search context. We introduce an approach that is based on entity extraction applied on the retrieved documents, yielding a graph of documents along with entities, which in turn is analyzed probabilistically using a Random Walk-based method. The proposed approach is independent of the submitted query and the underlying retrieval models, and thus can be applied over any ranked list of medical search results. Evaluation results using the data set of TREC Clinical Decision Support track demonstrate that the proposed approach can significantly improve the results returned by classic and widely applicable retrieval models. The results also enabled us to identify cases where the proposed reranking method fails to improve the ranking."
21	Shangri-La: A medical case-based retrieval tool	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Large amounts of medical visual data are produced in hospitals daily and made available continuously via publications in the scientific literature, representing the medical knowledge. However, it is not always easy to find the desired information and in clinical routine the time to fulfil an information need is often very limited. Information retrieval systems are a useful tool to provide access to these documents/images in the biomedical literature related to information needs of medical professionals. Shangri-La is a medical retrieval system that can potentially help clinicians to make decisions on difficult cases. It retrieves articles from the biomedical literature when querying a case description and attached images. The system is based on a multimodal retrieval approach with a focus on the integration of visual information connected to text. The approach includes a query-adaptive multimodal fusion criterion that analyses if visual features are suitable to be fused with text for the retrieval. Furthermore, image modality information is integrated in the retrieval step. The approach is evaluated using the ImageCLEFmed 2013 medical retrieval benchmark and can thus be compared to other approaches. Results show that the final approach outperforms the best multimodal approach submitted to ImageCLEFmed 2013."
22	Learning to reformulate long queries for clinical decision support	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The large volume of biomedical literature poses a serious problem for medical professionals, who are often struggling to keep current with it. At the same time, many health providers consider knowledge of the latest literature in their field a key component for successful clinical practice. In this work, we introduce two systems designed to help retrieving medical literature. Both receive a long, discursive clinical note as input query, and return highly relevant literature that could be used in support of clinical practice. The first system is an improved version of a method previously proposed by the authors; it combines pseudo relevance feedback and a domain-specific term filter to reformulate the query. The second is an approach that uses a deep neural network to reformulate a clinical note. Both approaches were evaluated on the 2014 and 2015 TREC CDS datasets; in our tests, they outperform the previously proposed method by up to 28% in inferred NDCG; furthermore, they are competitive with the state of the art, achieving up to 8% improvement in inferred NDCG."
23	Triaging content severity in online mental health forums	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In recent years, social media has become a significant resource for improving healthcare and mental health. Mental health forums are online communities where people express their issues, and seek help from moderators and other users. In such forums, there are often posts with severe content indicating that the user is in acute distress and there is a risk of attempted self-harm. Moderators need to respond to these severe posts in a timely manner to prevent potential self-harm. However, the large volume of daily posted content makes it difficult for the moderators to locate and respond to these critical posts. We propose an approach for triaging user content into four severity categories that are defined based on an indication of self-harm ideation. Our models are based on a feature-rich classification framework, which includes lexical, psycholinguistic, contextual, and topic modeling features. Our approaches improve over the state of the art in triaging the content severity in mental health forums by large margins (up to 17% improvement over the F-1 scores). Furthermore, using our proposed model, we analyze the mental state of users and we show that overall, long-term users of the forum demonstrate decreased severity of risk over time. Our analysis on the interaction of the moderators with the users further indicates that without an automatic way to identify critical content, it is indeed challenging for the moderators to provide timely response to the users in need."
24	Computational authorship verification method attributes a new work to a major 2nd century African author	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We discuss a real-world application of a recently proposed machine learning method for authorship verification. Authorship verification is considered an extremely difficult task in computational text classification, because it does not assume that the correct author of an anonymous text is included in the candidate authors available. To determine whether 2 documents have been written by the same author, the verification method discussed uses repeated feature subsampling and a pool of impostor authors. We use this technique to attribute a newly discovered Latin text from antiquity (the Compendiosa expositio) to Apuleius. This North African writer was one of the most important authors of the Roman Empire in the 2(nd) century and authored one of the world's first novels. This attribution has profound and wide-reaching cultural value, because it has been over a century since a new text by a major author from antiquity was discovered. This research therefore illustrates the rapidly growing potential of computational methods for studying the global textual heritage."
25	"Tweets as impact indicators: Examining the implications of automated ""bot"" accounts on Twitter"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This brief communication presents preliminary findings on automated Twitter accounts distributing links to scientific articles deposited on the preprint repository arXiv. It discusses the implication of the presence of such bots from the perspective of social media metrics (altmetrics), where mentions of scholarly documents on Twitter have been suggested as a means of measuring impact that is both broader and timelier than citations. Our results show that automated Twitter accounts create a considerable amount of tweets to scientific articles and that they behave differently than common social bots, which has critical implications for the use of raw tweet counts in research evaluation and assessment. We discuss some definitions of Twitter cyborgs and bots in scholarly communication and propose distinguishing between different levels of engagementthat is, differentiating between tweeting only bibliographic information to discussing or commenting on the content of a scientific work."
26	When are readership counts as useful as citation counts? Scopus versus Mendeley for LIS journals	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In theory, articles can attract readers on the social reference sharing site Mendeley before they can attract citations, so Mendeley altmetrics could provide early indications of article impact. This article investigates the influence of time on the number of Mendeley readers of an article through a theoretical discussion and an investigation into the relationship between counts of readers of, and citations to, 4 general library and information science (LIS) journals. For this discipline, it takes about 7 years for articles to attract as many Scopus citations as Mendeley readers, and after this the Spearman correlation between readers and citers is stable at about 0.6 for all years. This suggests that Mendeley readership counts may be useful impact indicators for both newer and older articles. The lack of dates for individual Mendeley article readers and an unknown bias toward more recent articles mean that readership data should be normalized individually by year, however, before making any comparisons between articles published in different years."
27	C-sanitized: A privacy model for document redaction and sanitization	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Vast amounts of information are daily exchanged and/or released. The sensitive nature of much of this information creates a serious privacy threat when documents are uncontrollably made available to untrusted third parties. In such cases, appropriate data protection measures should be undertaken by the responsible organization, especially under the umbrella of current legislation on data privacy. To do so, human experts are usually requested to redact or sanitize document contents. To relieve this burdensome task, this paper presents a privacy model for document redaction/sanitization, which offers several advantages over other models available in the literature. Based on the well-established foundations of data semantics and information theory, our model provides a framework to develop and implement automated and inherently semantic redaction/sanitization tools. Moreover, contrary to ad-hoc redaction methods, our proposal provides a priori privacy guarantees which can be intuitively defined according to current legislations on data privacy. Empirical tests performed within the context of several use cases illustrate the applicability of our model and its ability to mimic the reasoning of human sanitizers."
28	Descriptive document clustering via discriminant learning in a co-embedded space of multilevel similarities	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Descriptive document clustering aims at discovering clusters of semantically interrelated documents together with meaningful labels to summarize the content of each document cluster. In this work, we propose a novel descriptive clustering framework, referred to as CEDL. It relies on the formulation and generation of 2 types of heterogeneous objects, which correspond to documents and candidate phrases, using multilevel similarity information. CEDL is composed of 5 main processing stages. First, it simultaneously maps the documents and candidate phrases into a common co-embedded space that preserves higher-order, neighbor-based proximities between the combined sets of documents and phrases. Then, it discovers an approximate cluster structure of documents in the common space. The third stage extracts promising topic phrases by constructing a discriminant model where documents along with their cluster memberships are used as training instances. Subsequently, the final cluster labels are selected from the topic phrases using a ranking scheme using multiple scores based on the extracted co-embedding information and the discriminant output. The final stage polishes the initial clusters to reduce noise and accommodate the multitopic nature of documents. The effectiveness and competitiveness of CEDL is demonstrated qualitatively and quantitatively with experiments using document databases from different application fields."
29	Scientists' Data Reuse Behaviors: A Multilevel Analysis	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study explores the factors that influence the data reuse behaviors of scientists and identifies the generalized patterns that occur in data reuse across various disciplines. This research employed an integrated theoretical framework combining institutional theory and the theory of planned behavior. The combined theoretical framework can apply the institutional theory at the individual level and extend the theory of planned behavior by including relevant contexts. This study utilized a survey method to test the proposed research model and hypotheses. Study participants were recruited from the Community of Science's (CoS) Scholar Database, and a total of 1,528 scientists responded to the survey. A multilevel analysis method was used to analyze the 1,237 qualified responses. This research showed that scientists' data reuse intentions are influenced by both disciplinary level factors (availability of data repositories) and individual level factors (perceived usefulness, perceived concern, and the availability of internal resources). This study has practical implications for promoting data reuse practices. Three main areas that need to be improved are identified: Educating scientists, providing internal supports, and providing external resources and supports such as data repositories."
30	Understanding an Enriched Multidimensional User Relevance Model by Analyzing Query Logs	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Modeling multidimensional relevance in information retrieval (IR) has attracted much attention in recent years. However, most existing studies are conducted through relatively small-scale user studies, which may not reflect a real-world and natural search scenario. In this article, we propose to study the multidimensional user relevance model (MURM) on large scale query logs, which record users' various search behaviors (e.g., query reformulations, clicks and dwelling time, etc.) in natural search settings. We advance an existing MURM model (including five dimensions: topicality, novelty, reliability, understandability, and scope) by providing two additional dimensions, that is, interest and habit. The two new dimensions represent personalized relevance judgment on retrieved documents. Further, for each dimension in the enriched MURM model, a set of computable features are formulated. By conducting extensive document ranking experiments on Bing's query logs and TREC session Track data, we systematically investigated the impact of each dimension on retrieval performance and gained a series of insightful findings which may bring benefits for the design of future IR systems."
31	"Classifying Twitter favorites: Like, bookmark, or Thanks?"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Since its foundation in 2006, Twitter has enjoyed a meteoric rise in popularity, currently boasting over 500 million users. Its short text nature means that the service is open to a variety of different usage patterns, which have evolved rapidly in terms of user base and utilization. Prior work has categorized Twitter users, as well as studied the use of lists and re-tweets and how these can be used to infer user profiles and interests. The focus of this article is on studying why and how Twitter users mark tweets as favoritesa functionality with currently poorly understood usage, but strong relevance for personalization and information access applications. Firstly, manual analysis and classification are carried out on a randomly chosen set of favorited tweets, which reveal different approaches to using this functionality (i.e., bookmarks, thanks, like, conversational, and self-promotion). Secondly, an automatic favorites classification approach is proposed, based on the categories established in the previous step. Our machine learning experiments demonstrate a high degree of success in matching human judgments in classifying favorites according to usage type. In conclusion, we discuss the purposes to which these data could be put, in the context of identifying users' patterns of interests."
32	A framework for evaluating automatic indexing or classification in the context of retrieval	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Tools for automatic subject assignment help deal with scale and sustainability in creating and enriching metadata, establishing more connections across and between resources and enhancing consistency. Although some software vendors and experimental researchers claim the tools can replace manual subject indexing, hard scientific evidence of their performance in operating information environments is scarce. A major reason for this is that research is usually conducted in laboratory conditions, excluding the complexities of real-life systems and situations. The article reviews and discusses issues with existing evaluation approaches such as problems of aboutness and relevance assessments, implying the need to use more than a single gold standard method when evaluating indexing and retrieval, and proposes a comprehensive evaluation framework. The framework is informed by a systematic review of the literature on evaluation approaches: evaluating indexing quality directly through assessment by an evaluator or through comparison with a gold standard, evaluating the quality of computer-assisted indexing directly in the context of an indexing workflow, and evaluating indexing quality indirectly through analyzing retrieval performance."
33	Discovering Story Chains: A Framework Based on Zigzagged Search and News Actors	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"A story chain is a set of related news articles that reveal how different events are connected. This study presents a framework for discovering story chains, given an input document, in a text collection. The framework has 3 complementary parts that i) scan the collection, ii) measure the similarity between chain-member candidates and the chain, and iii) measure similarity among news articles. For scanning, we apply a novel text-mining method that uses a zigzagged search that reinvestigates past documents based on the updated chain. We also utilize social networks of news actors to reveal connections among news articles. We conduct 2 user studies in terms of 4 effectiveness measures-relevance, coverage, coherence, and ability to disclose relations. The first user study compares several versions of the framework, by varying parameters, to set a guideline for use. The second compares the framework with 3 baselines. The results show that our method provides statistically significant improvement in effectiveness in 61% of pairwise comparisons, with medium or large effect size; in the remainder, none of the baselines significantly outperforms our method."
34	Assessing Perceived Organizational Leadership Styles Through Twitter Text Mining	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We propose a text classification tool based on support vector machines for the assessment of organizational leadership styles, as appearing to Twitter users. We collected Twitter data over 51 days, related to the first 30 Italian organizations in the 2015 ranking of Forbes Global 2000out of which we selected the five with the most relevant volumes of tweets. We analyzed the communication of the company leaders, together with the dialogue among the stakeholders of each company, to understand the association with perceived leadership styles and dimensions. To assess leadership profiles, we referred to the 10-factor model developed by Barchiesi and La Bella in 2007. We maintain the distinctiveness of the approach we propose, as it allows a rapid assessment of the perceived leadership capabilities of an enterprise, as they emerge from its social media interactions. It can also be used to show how companies respond and manage their communication when specific events take place, and to assess their stakeholder's reactions."
35	Metric assessments of books as families of works	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We describe the intellectual and physical properties of books as manifestations, expressions, and works and assess the current indexing and metadata structure of monographs in the Book Citation Index (BKCI). Our focus is on the interrelationship of these properties in light of the Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR). Data pertaining to monographs were collected from the Danish PURE repository system as well as the BKCI (2005-2015) via their International Standard Book Numbers (ISBNs). Each ISBN was then matched to the same ISBN and family-related ISBNs cataloged in two additional databases: OCLC-WorldCat and Goodreads. With the retrieval of all family-related ISBNs, we were able to determine the number of monograph expressions present in the BKCI and their collective relationship to one work. Our results show that the majority of missing expressions from the BKCI are emblematic (i.e., first editions of monographs) and that both the indexing and metadata structure of this commercial database could significantly improve with the introduction of distinct expression IDs (i.e., for every distinct edition) and unifying work-related IDs. This improved metadata structure would support the collection of more accurate publication and citation counts for monographs and has implications for developing new indicators based on bibliographic levels."
36	How quickly do publications get read? The evolution of mendeley reader counts for new articles	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Within science, citation counts are widely used to estimate research impact but publication delays mean that they are not useful for recent research. This gap can be filled by Mendeley reader counts, which are valuable early impact indicators for academic articles because they appear before citations and correlate strongly with them. Nevertheless, it is not known how Mendeley readership counts accumulate within the year of publication, and so it is unclear how soon they can be used. In response, this paper reports a longitudinal weekly study of the Mendeley readers of articles in 6 library and information science journals from 2016. The results suggest that Mendeley readers accrue from when articles are first available online and continue to steadily build. For journals with large publication delays, articles can already have substantial numbers of readers by their publication date. Thus, Mendeley reader counts may even be useful as early impact indicators for articles before they have been officially published in a journal issue. If field normalized indicators are needed, then these can be generated when journal issues are published using the online first date."
37	Take an opportunity whenever you get it: Information sharing among African-American women with hypertension	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Nearly half of African-American women have hypertension, which increases their risk for cardiovascular disease and stroke. A plethora of consumer health information products and services exist to inform people with hypertension and to promote self-management among them. Promotion of information sharing by African-American women represents a promising, culturally applicable strategy for consumer health information services focused on hypertension self-management. Yet how African-American women share hypertension information with others is unclear. The purpose of this qualitative, descriptive study was to examine practices of information sharing in African-American women with hypertension. Thirteen women (mean age=73, SD=9.87) participated in one of 2 focus groups held at an urban community health center. Thematic analysis revealed that the women shared information about how they self-managed their blood pressure i) with female family members and friends, ii) about ways in which they adapted self-management strategies to work for them, iii) mostly in group settings, and iv) because they wanted to prevent others from suffering and reinforce their own knowledge about hypertension self-management. New findings emerged regarding assessing readiness for information. Study findings will be used to inform the design of an information-sharing intervention to support self-management of hypertension in African-American women."
38	SUDMAD: Sequential and Unsupervised Decomposition of a Multi-Author Document Based on a Hidden Markov Model	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Decomposing a document written by more than one author into sentences based on authorship is of great significance due to the increasing demand for plagiarism detection, forensic analysis, civil law (i.e., disputed copyright issues), and intelligence issues that involve disputed anonymous documents. Among existing studies for document decomposition, some were limited by specific languages, according to topics or restricted to a document of two authors, and their accuracies have big room for improvement. In this paper, we consider the contextual correlation hidden among sentences and propose an algorithm for Sequential and Unsupervised Decomposition of a Multi-Author Document (SUDMAD) written in any language, disregarding topics, through the construction of a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) reflecting the authors' writing styles. To build and learn such a model, an unsupervised, statistical approach is first proposed to estimate the initial values of HMM parameters of a preliminary model, which does not require the availability of any information of author's or document's context other than how many authors contributed to writing the document. To further boost the performance of this approach, a boosted HMM learning procedure is proposed next, where the initial classification results are used to create labeled training data to learn a more accurate HMM. Moreover, the contextual relationship among sentences is further utilized to refine the classification results. Our proposed approach is empirically evaluated on three benchmark datasets that are widely used for authorship analysis of documents. Comparisons with recent state-of-the-art approaches are also presented to demonstrate the significance of our new ideas and the superior performance of our approach."
39	"Characterizing, Predicting, and Handling Web Search Queries That Match Very Few or No Results"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"A non-negligible fraction of user queries end up with very few or even no matching results in leading commercial web search engines. In this work, we provide a detailed characterization of such queries and show that search engines try to improve such queries by showing the results of related queries. Through a user study, we show that these query suggestions are usually perceived as relevant. Also, through a query log analysis, we show that the users are dissatisfied after submitting a query that match no results at least 88.5% of the time. As a first step towards solving these no-answer queries, we devised a large number of features that can be used to identify such queries and built machine-learning models. These models can be useful for scenarios such as the mobile- or meta-search, where identifying a query that will retrieve no results at the client device (i.e., even before submitting it to the search engine) may yield gains in terms of the bandwidth usage, power consumption, and/or monetary costs. Experiments over query logs indicate that, despite the heavy skew in class sizes, our models achieve good prediction quality, with accuracy (in terms of area under the curve) up to 0.95."
40	A Bibliometric Model for Identifying Emerging Research Topics	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Detecting emerging research topics is essential, not only for research agencies but also for individual researchers. Previous studies have created various bibliographic indicators for the identification of emerging research topics. However, as indicated by Rotolo et al. (Research Policy 44, 1827-1843, ), the most serious problems are the lack of an acknowledged definition of emergence and incomplete elaboration of the linkages between the definitions that are used and the indicators that are created. With these issues in mind, this study first adjusts the definition of an emerging technology that Rotolo et al. (2015) have proposed to accommodate the analysis. Next, a set of criteria for the identification of emerging topics is proposed according to the adjusted definition and attributes of emergence. Using two sets of parameter values, several emerging research topics are identified. Finally, evaluation tests are conducted by demonstration of the proposed approach and comparison with previous studies. The strength of the present methodology lies in the fact that it is fully transparent, straightforward, and flexible."
41	An improved algorithm for unsupervised decomposition of a multi-author document	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article addresses the problem of unsupervised decomposition of a multi-author text document: identifying the sentences written by each author assuming the number of authors is unknown. An approach, BayesAD, is developed for solving this problem: apply a Bayesian segmentation algorithm, followed by a segment clustering algorithm. Results are presented from an empirical comparison between BayesAD and AK, a modified version of an approach published by Akiva and Koppel in 2013. BayesAD exhibited greater accuracy than AK in all experiments. However, BayesAD has a parameter that needs to be set and which had a nontrivial impact on accuracy. Developing an effective method for eliminating this need would be a fruitful direction for future work. When controlling for topic, the accuracy levels of BayesAD and AK were, in all but one case, worse than a baseline approach wherein one author was assumed to write all sentences in the input text document. Hence, room for improved solutions exists."
42	On full text download and citation distributions in scientific-scholarly journals	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"A statistical analysis of full text downloads of articles in Elsevier's ScienceDirect covering all disciplines reveals large differences in download frequencies, their skewness, and their correlation with Scopus-based citation counts, between disciplines, journals, and document types. Download counts tend to be 2 orders of magnitude higher and less skewedly distributed than citations. A mathematical model based on the sum of two exponentials does not adequately capture monthly download counts. The degree of correlation at the article level within a journal is similar to that at the journal level in the discipline covered by that journal, suggesting that the differences between journals are, to a large extent, discipline specific. Despite the fact that in all studied journals download and citation counts per article positively correlate, little overlap may exist between the set of articles appearing in the top of the citation distribution and that with the most frequently downloaded ones. Usage and citation leaks, bulk downloading, differences between reader and author populations in a subject field, the type of document or its content, differences in obsolescence patterns between downloads and citations, and different functions of reading and citing in the research process all provide possible explanations of differences between download and citation distributions."
43	URL decay at year 20: A research note	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"All text is ephemeral. Some texts are more ephemeral than others. The web has proved to be among the most ephemeral and changing of information vehicles. The research note revisits Koehler's original data set after about 20 years since it was first collected. By late 2013, the number of URLs responding to a query had fallen to 1.6% of the original sample. A query of the 6 remaining URLs in February 2015 showed only 2 still responding."
44	Modelling Transition Phenomena of Scientific Coauthorship Networks	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In a range of scientific coauthorship networks, transitions emerge in degree distribution, in the correlation between degree and local clustering coefficient, etc. The existence of those transitions could be regarded because of the diversity in collaboration behaviors of scientific fields. A growing geometric hypergraph built on a cluster of concentric circles is proposed to model two specific collaboration behaviors, namely the behaviors of research team leaders and those of the other team members. The model successfully predicts the transitions, as well as many common features of coauthorship networks. Particularly, it realizes a process of deriving the complex scale-free property from the simple yes/no decisions. Moreover, it provides a reasonable explanation for the emergence of transitions with the difference of collaboration behaviors between leaders and other members. The difference emerges in the evolution of research teams, which synthetically addresses several specific factors of generating collaborations, namely the communications between research teams, academic impacts and homophily of authors."
45	A conceptual model for video games and interactive media	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In this article, we describe a conceptual model for video games and interactive media. Existing conceptual models such as the Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR) are not adequate to represent the unique descriptive attributes, levels of variance, and relationships among video games. Previous video game-specific models tend to focus on the development of video games and their technical aspects. Our model instead attempts to reflect how users such as game players, collectors, and scholars understand video games and the relationships among them. We specifically consider use cases of gamers, with future intentions of using this conceptual model as a foundation for developing a union catalog for various libraries and museums. In the process of developing the model, we encountered many challenges, including conceptual overlap with and divergence from FRBR, entity scoping, complex relationships among entities, and the question of how to model additional content for game expansion. Future work will focus on making this model interoperable with existing ontologies as well as further understanding and description of content and relationships."
46	A web analytics approach for appraising electronic resources in academic libraries	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"University libraries provide access to thousands of journals and spend millions of dollars annually on electronic resources. With several commercial entities providing these electronic resources, the result can be silo systems and processes to evaluate cost and usage of these resources, making it difficult to provide meaningful analytics. In this research, we examine a subset of journals from a large research library using a web analytics approach with the goal of developing a framework for the analysis of library subscriptions. This foundational approach is implemented by comparing the impact to the cost, titles, and usage for the subset of journals and by assessing the funding area. Overall, the results highlight the benefit of a web analytics evaluation framework for university libraries and the impact of classifying titles based on the funding area. Furthermore, they show the statistical difference in both use and cost among the various funding areas when ranked by cost, eliminating the outliers of heavily used and highly expensive journals. Future work includes refining this model for a larger scale analysis tying metrics to library organizational objectives and for the creation of an online application to automate this analysis."
47	Costly collaborations: The impact of scientific fraud on co-authors' careers	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Over the past few years, several major scientific fraud cases have shocked the scientific community. The number of retractions each year has also increased tremendously, especially in the biomedical field, and scientific misconduct accounts for more than half of those retractions. It is assumed that co-authors of retracted papers are affected by their colleagues' misconduct, and the aim of this study is to provide empirical evidence of the effect of retractions in biomedical research on co-authors' research careers. Using data from the Web of Science, we measured the productivity, impact, and collaboration of 1,123 co-authors of 293 retracted articles for a period of 5 years before and after the retraction. We found clear evidence that collaborators do suffer consequences of their colleagues' misconduct and that a retraction for fraud has higher consequences than a retraction for error. Our results also suggest that the extent of these consequences is closely linked with the ranking of co-authors on the retracted paper, being felt most strongly by first authors, followed by the last authors, with the impact is less important for middle authors."
48	Can Amazon.com reviews help to assess the wider impacts of books?	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Although citation counts are often used to evaluate the research impact of academic publications, they are problematic for books that aim for educational or cultural impact. To fill this gap, this article assesses whether a number of simple metrics derived from Amazon.com reviews of academic books could provide evidence of their impact. Based on a set of 2,739 academic monographs from 2008 and a set of 1,305 best-selling books in 15 Amazon.com academic subject categories, the existence of significant but low or moderate correlations between citations and numbers of reviews, combined with other evidence, suggests that online book reviews tend to reflect the wider popularity of a book rather than its academic impact, although there are substantial disciplinary differences. Metrics based on online reviews are therefore recommended for the evaluation of books that aim at a wide audience inside or outside academia when it is important to capture the broader impacts of educational or cultural activities and when they cannot be manipulated in advance of the evaluation."
49	An ontology-based model for indexing and retrieval	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The presented ontology-based model for indexing and retrieval combines the methods and experiences of traditional indexing languages with their cognitively interpreted entities and relationships with the strengths and possibilities of formal knowledge representation. The core component of the model uses inferences along the paths of typed relations between the entities of a knowledge representation for enabling the determination of result sets in the context of retrieval processes. A proposal for a general, but condensed, inventory of typed relations is given. The entities are arranged in aspect-oriented facets to ensure a consistent hierarchical structure. The possible consequences for indexing and retrieval are discussed."
50	The twist measure for IR evaluation: Taking user's effort into account	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We present a novel measure for ranking evaluation, called Twist (). It is a measure for informational intents, which handles both binary and graded relevance. stems from the observation that searching is currently a that searching is currently taken for granted and it is natural for users to assume that search engines are available and work well. As a consequence, users may assume the utility they have in finding relevant documents, which is the focus of traditional measures, as granted. On the contrary, they may feel uneasy when the system returns nonrelevant documents because they are then forced to do additional work to get the desired information, and this causes avoidable effort. The latter is the focus of , which evaluates the effectiveness of a system from the point of view of the effort required to the users to retrieve the desired information. We provide a formal definition of , a demonstration of its properties, and introduce the notion of effort/gain plots, which complement traditional utility-based measures. By means of an extensive experimental evaluation, is shown to grasp different aspects of system performances, to not require extensive and costly assessments, and to be a robust tool for detecting differences between systems."
51	Dimensions and uncertainties of author citation rankings: Lessons learned from frequency-weighted in-text citation counting	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In-text frequency-weighted citation counting has been seen as a particularly promising solution to the well-known problem of citation analysis that it treats all citations equally, be they crucial to the citing paper or perfunctory. But what is a good weighting scheme? We compare 12 different in-text citation frequency-weighting schemes in the field of library and information science (LIS) and explore author citation impact patterns based on their performance in these schemes. Our results show that the ranks of authors vary widely with different weighting schemes that favor or are biased against common citation impact patternssubstantiated, applied, or noted. These variations separate LIS authors quite clearly into groups with these impact patterns. With consensus rank limits, the hard upper and lower bounds for reasonable author ranks that they provide suggest that author citation ranks may be subject to something like an uncertainty principle."
52	"The operationalization of ""fields"" as WoS subject categories (WCs) in evaluative bibliometrics: The cases of ""library and information science"" and ""science & technology studies"""	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Normalization of citation scores using reference sets based on Web of Science subject categories (WCs) has become an established (best) practice in evaluative bibliometrics. For example, the Times Higher Education World University Rankings are, among other things, based on this operationalization. However, WCs were developed decades ago for the purpose of information retrieval and evolved incrementally with the database; the classification is machine-based and partially manually corrected. Using the WC information science & library science and the WCs attributed to journals in the field of science and technology studies, we show that WCs do not provide sufficient analytical clarity to carry bibliometric normalization in evaluation practices because of indexer effects. Can the compliance with best practices be replaced with an ambition to develop best possible practices? New research questions can then be envisaged."
53	The impact of research funding on scientific outputs: Evidence from six smaller European countries	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We investigate the relationships between the citation impacts of scientific papers and the sources of funding that are acknowledged as having supported those publications. We examine several relationships potentially associated with funding, including first citation, total citations, and the chances of becoming highly cited. Furthermore, we explore the links between citations and types of funding by organization and also with combined measures of funding. In particular, we examine the relationship between funding intensity and funding variety and citation. Our empirical work focuses on six small advanced European economies, applying a zero inflated negative binomial model to a set of more than 240,000 papers authored by researchers from these countries. We find that funding is not related to the first citation but is significantly related to the number of citations and top percentile citation impact. Additionally, we find that citation impact is positively related to funding variety and negatively related with funding intensity. Finally there is an inverse relationship between the relative frequency of funding and citation impact. The results presented in the paper provide insights for the design of research programs and the structure of research funding and for the behavior and strategies of research and sponsoring organizations."
54	"Journal portfolio analysis for countries, cities, and organizations: Maps and comparisons"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Using Web of Science data, portfolio analysis in terms of journal coverage can be projected onto a base map for units of analysis such as countries, cities, universities, and firms. The units of analysis under study can be compared statistically across the 10,000+ journals. The interdisciplinarity of the portfolios is measured using Rao-Stirling diversity or Zhang etal.'s improved measure D-2(3). At the country level we find regional differentiation (e.g., Latin American or Asian countries), but also a major divide between advanced and less-developed countries. Israel and Israeli cities outperform other nations and cities in terms of diversity. Universities appear to be specifically related to firms when a number of these units are exploratively compared. The instrument is relatively simple and straightforward, and one can generalize the application to any document set retrieved from the Web of Science (WoS). Further instruction is provided online at ."
55	"Benford's law: A ""sleeping beauty"" sleeping in the dirty pages of logarithmic tables"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Benford's law is an empirical observation, first reported by Simon Newcomb in 1881 and then independently by Frank Benford in 1938: the first significant digits of numbers in large data are often distributed according to a logarithmically decreasing function. Being contrary to intuition, the law was forgotten as a mere curious observation. However, in the last two decades relevant literature has grown exponentially-an evolution typical of ""Sleeping Beauties"" (SBs) publications that go unnoticed (sleep) for a long time and then suddenly become the center of attention (are awakened). Thus, in the present study, we show that the two papers, Newcomb (1881) and Benford (1938), Newcomb (1881, American Journal of Mathematics, 4, 39-40) and Benford (1938, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc., 78, 551-572) papers are clearly SBs. The former was in a deep sleep for 110 years, whereas the latter was in a deep sleep for a comparatively lesser period of 31 years up to 1968, and in a state of less deep sleep for another 27 years, up to 1995. Both SBs were awakened in the year 1995 by Hill (1995a, Statistical Science, 10, 354-363). In so doing, we show that the waking prince (Hill, 1995a) is more often quoted than the SB whom he kissed-in this Benford's law case, wondering whether this is a general effect-to be usefully studied."
56	Smart girls versus sleeping beauties in the sciences: The identification of instant and delayed recognition by using the citation angle	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In recent years, a number of studies have introduced methods for identifying papers with delayed recognition (so called ""sleeping beauties,"" SBs) or have presented single publications as cases of SBs. Most recently, Ke, Ferrara, Radicchi, and Flammini (2015, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA, 112(24), 7426-7431) proposed the so called ""beauty coefficient"" (denoted as B) to quantify how much a given paper can be considered as a paper with delayed recognition. In this study, the new term smart girl (SG) is suggested to differentiate instant credit or ""flashes in the pan"" from SBs. Although SG and SB are qualitatively defined, the dynamic citation angle beta is introduced in this study as a simple way for identifying SGs and SBs quantitatively - complementing the beauty coefficient B. The citation angles for all articles from 1980 (n=166,870) in natural sciences are calculated for identifying SGs and SBs and their extent. We reveal that about 3% of the articles are typical SGs and about 0.1% typical SBs. The potential advantages of the citation angle approach are explained."
57	"A wikification prediction model based on the combination of latent, dyadic, and monadic features"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Considering repositories of web documents that are semantically linked and created in a collaborative fashion, as in the case of Wikipedia, a key problem faced by content providers is the placement of links in the articles. These links must support user navigation and provide a deeper semantic interpretation of the content. Current wikification methods exploit machine learning techniques to capture characteristics of the concepts and its associations. In previous work, we proposed a preliminary prediction model combining traditional predictors with a latent component which captures the concept graph topology by means of matrix factorization. In this work, we provide a detailed description of our method and a deeper comparison with a state-of-the-art wikification method using a sample of Wikipedia and report a gain up to 13% in F1 score. We also provide a comprehensive analysis of the model performance showing the importance of the latent predictor component and the attributes derived from the associations between the concepts. Moreover, we include an analysis that allows us to conclude that the model is resilient to ambiguity without including a disambiguation phase. We finally report the positive impact of selecting training samples from specific content quality classes."
58	An empirical investigation on search engine ad disclosure	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This representative study of German search engine users (N = 1,000) focuses on the ability of users to distinguish between organic results and advertisements on Google results pages. We combine questions about Google's business with task-based studies in which users were asked to distinguish between ads and organic results in screenshots of results pages. We find that only a small percentage of users can reliably distinguish between ads and organic results, and that user knowledge of Google's business model is very limited. We conclude that ads are insufficiently labelled as such, and that many users may click on ads assuming that they are selecting organic results."
59	The cultural evolution of national constitutions	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We explore how ideas from infectious disease and genetics can be used to uncover patterns of cultural inheritance and innovation in a corpus of 591 national constitutions spanning 1789-2008. Legal ideas are encoded as topicswords statistically linked in documentsderived from topic modeling the corpus of constitutions. Using these topics we derive a diffusion network for borrowing from ancestral constitutions back to the US Constitution of 1789 and reveal that constitutions are complex cultural recombinants. We find systematic variation in patterns of borrowing from ancestral texts and biological-like behavior in patterns of inheritance, with the distribution of offspring arising through a bounded preferential-attachment process. This process leads to a small number of highly innovative (influential) constitutions some of which have yet to have been identified as so in the current literature. Our findings thus shed new light on the critical nodes of the constitution-making network. The constitutional network structure reflects periods of intense constitution creation, and systematic patterns of variation in constitutional lifespan and temporal influence."
60	Exploring information interactions in the context of Google	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The study sets out to explore the factors that influence the evaluation of information and the judgments made in the process of finding useful information in web search contexts. Based on a diary study of 2 assigned tasks to search on Google and Google Scholar, factor analysis identified the core constructs of content, relevance, scope, and style, as well as informational and system ease of use as influencing the judgment that useful information had been found. Differences were found in the participants' evaluation of information across the search tasks on Google and on Google Scholar when identified by the factors related to both content and ease of use. The findings from this study suggest how searchers might critically evaluate information, and the study identifies a relation between the user's involvement in the information interaction and the influences of the perceived system ease of use and information design."
61	"Understanding ""influence"": An empirical test of the Data-Frame Theory of Sensemaking"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This paper reports findings from a study designed to gain broader understanding of sensemaking activities using the Data/Frame Theory as the analytical framework. Although this theory is one of the dominant models of sensemaking, it has not been extensively tested with a range of sensemaking tasks. The tasks discussed here focused on making sense of structures rather than processes or narratives. Eleven researchers were asked to construct understanding of how a scientific community in a particular domain is organized (e.g., people, relationships, contributions, factors) by exploring the concept of influence in academia. This topic was chosen because, although researchers frequently handle this type of task, it is unlikely that they have explicitly sought this type of information. We conducted a think-aloud study and semistructured interviews with junior and senior researchers from the human-computer interaction (HCI) domain, asking them to identify current leaders and rising stars in both HCI and chemistry. Data were coded and analyzed using the Data/Frame Model to both test and extend the model. Three themes emerged from the analysis: novices and experts' sensemaking activity chains, constructing frames through indicators, and characteristics of structure tasks. We propose extensions to the Data/Frame Model to accommodate structure sensemaking."
62	Bibliogifts in LibGen? A study of a text-sharing platform driven by biblioleaks and crowdsourcing	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Research articles disseminate the knowledge produced by the scientific community. Access to this literature is crucial for researchers and the general public. Apparently, bibliogifts are available online for free from text-sharing platforms. However, little is known about such platforms. What is the size of the underlying digital libraries? What are the topics covered? Where do these documents originally come from? This article reports on a study of the Library Genesis platform (LibGen). The 25 million documents (42 terabytes) it hosts and distributes for free are mostly research articles, textbooks, and books in English. The article collection stems from isolated, but massive, article uploads (71%) in line with a biblioleaks scenario, as well as from daily crowdsourcing (29%) by worldwide users of platforms such as Reddit Scholar and Sci-Hub. By relating the DOIs registered at CrossRef and those cached at LibGen, this study reveals that 36% of all DOI articles are available for free at LibGen. This figure is even higher (68%) for three major publishers: Elsevier, Springer, and Wiley. More research is needed to understand to what extent researchers and the general public have recourse to such text-sharing platforms and why."
63	Guideline references and academic citations as evidence of the clinical value of health research	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article introduces a new source of evidence of the value of medical-related research: citations from clinical guidelines. These give evidence that research findings have been used to inform the day-to-day practice of medical staff. To identify whether citations from guidelines can give different information from that of traditional citation counts, this article assesses the extent to which references in clinical guidelines tend to be highly cited in the academic literature and highly read in Mendeley. Using evidence from the United Kingdom, references associated with the UK's National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines tended to be substantially more cited than comparable articles, unless they had been published in the most recent 3 years. Citation counts also seemed to be stronger indicators than Mendeley readership altmetrics. Hence, although presence in guidelines may be particularly useful to highlight the contributions of recently published articles, for older articles citation counts may already be sufficient to recognize their contributions to health in society."
64	Comparing keywords plus of WOS and author keywords: A case study of patient adherence research	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Bibliometric analysis based on literature in the Web of Science (WOS) has become an increasingly popular method for visualizing the structure of scientific fields. Keywords Plus and Author Keywords are commonly selected as units of analysis, despite the limited research evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of Keywords Plus. This study was conceived to evaluate the efficacy of Keywords Plus as a parameter for capturing the content and scientific concepts presented in articles. Using scientific papers about patient adherence that were retrieved from WOS, a comparative assessment of Keywords Plus and Author Keywords was performed at the scientific field level and the document level, respectively. Our search yielded more Keywords Plus terms than Author Keywords, and the Keywords Plus terms were more broadly descriptive. Keywords Plus is as effective as Author Keywords in terms of bibliometric analysis investigating the knowledge structure of scientific fields, but it is less comprehensive in representing an article's content."
65	Measuring compliance with a Spanish Government open access mandate	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Open access (OA) mandates are policies that require researchers to provide free, unrestricted access to their published research by including it in OA journals (gold OA) or depositing it in freely available disciplinary or institutional repositories (green OA). This study measures the degree of compliance with a Spanish government OA mandate 2.5 years after its implementation. A total of 58.4% of articles resulting from publicly funded research had at least one OA copy available 1 year after publication. Among these, 23.8% were in gold OA, 21.8% in green OA and 12.8% in gray OA, i.e., posted on websites and social networks. Most of the green OA articles were in 2 disciplinary repositories: arXiv and PubMed Central. Just 14.4% of the articles resulting from publicly funded research were available in institutional repositories, although more than 90% of the articles in the data set were the result of projects carried out at institutions that have such an archive. There is great potential for growth in green OA, because over two thirds of the articles that were not available as OA were published in journals whose publishers allow a preprint or a postprint copy to be deposited."
66	A relational altmetric? Network centrality on ResearchGate as an indicator of scientific impact	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Social media are becoming increasingly popular in scientific communication. A range of platforms, such as academic social networking sites (SNS), are geared specifically towards the academic community. Proponents of the altmetrics approach have pointed out that new media allow for new avenues of scientific impact assessment. Traditional impact measures based on bibliographic analysis have long been criticized for overlooking the relational dynamics of scientific impact. We therefore propose an application of social network analysis to researchers' interactions on an academic social networking site to generate potential new metrics of scientific impact. Based on a case study conducted among a sample of Swiss management scholars, we analyze how centrality measures derived from the participants' interactions on the academic SNS ResearchGate relate to traditional, offline impact indicators. We find that platform engagement, seniority, and publication impact contribute to members' indegree and eigenvector centrality on the platform, but less so to closeness or betweenness centrality. We conclude that a relational approach based on social network analyses of academic SNS, while subject to platform-specific dynamics, may add richness and differentiation to scientific impact assessment."
67	Institutional and individual factors affecting scientists' data-sharing behaviors: A multilevel analysis	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The objective of this research was to investigate the institutional and individual factors that influence scientists' data-sharing behaviors across different scientific disciplines. Two theoretical perspectives, institutional theory, and theory of planned behavior, were employed in developing a research model that showed the complementary nature of the institutional and individual factors influencing scientists' data-sharing behaviors. This research used a survey method to examine to what extent those institutional and individual factors influence scientists' data-sharing behaviors in a range of scientific disciplines. A national survey (with 1,317 scientists in 43 disciplines) showed that regulative pressure by journals, normative pressure at a discipline level, and perceived career benefit and scholarly altruism at an individual level had significant positive relationships with data-sharing behaviors, and that perceived effort had a significant negative relationship. Regulative pressure by funding agencies and the availability of data repositories at a discipline level and perceived career risk at an individual level were not found to have any significant relationships with data-sharing behaviors."
68	User experience with commercial music services: An empirical exploration	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The music information retrieval (MIR) community has long understood the role of evaluation as a critical component for successful information retrieval systems. Over the past several years, it has also become evident that user-centered evaluation based on realistic tasks is essential for creating systems that are commercially marketable. Although user-oriented research has been increasing, the MIR field is still lacking in holistic, user-centered approaches to evaluating music services beyond measuring the performance of search or classification algorithms. In light of this need, we conducted a user study exploring how users evaluate their overall experience with existing popular commercial music services, asking about their interactions with the system as well as situational and personal characteristics. In this paper, we present a qualitative heuristic evaluation of commercial music services based on Jakob Nielsen's 10 usability heuristics for user interface design, and also discuss 8 additional criteria that may be used for the holistic evaluation of user experience in MIR systems. Finally, we recommend areas of future user research raised by trends and patterns that surfaced from this user study."
69	Personal communication networks and their positive effects on online collaboration and outcome quality on Wikipedia	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Online collaborative projects have been utilized in a variety of ways over the past decade, such as bringing people together to build open source software or developing the world's largest free encyclopedia. Personal communication networks as a feature do not exist in all collaborative projects. It is currently unclear if a designer's decision to include a personal communication network in a collaborative project's structure affects outcome quality. In this study, I investigated Wikipedia's personal communication network and analyzed which Wikipedia editors are utilizing it and how they are connected to outcome quality. Evidence suggests that people who utilize these networks are more experienced in editing high quality articles and are more integrated in the community. Additionally, these individuals utilize the personal communication network for coordinating and perhaps mentoring editors who edit lower quality articles. The value of these networks is demonstrated by the characteristics of the users who use them. These findings indicate that designers of online collaborative projects can help improve the quality of outcomes in these projects by deciding to implement a personal communication network in their communities."
70	"Are You Satisfied Yet? Shared Leadership, Individual Trust, Autonomy, and Satisfaction in Virtual Teams"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Despite the benefits associated with virtual teams, many people on these teams are unsatisfied with their experience. The goal of this study was to determine how to better facilitate satisfaction through shared leadership, individual trust, and autonomy. Specifically, in this study we sought a better understanding of the effects of shared leadership, team members' trust, and autonomy on satisfaction. We conducted a study with 163 individuals in 44 virtual teams. The results indicate that shared leadership facilitates satisfaction in virtual teams both directly and indirectly through the promotion of trust. Shared leadership moderated the relationships of individual trust and individual autonomy with satisfaction. Team-level satisfaction was a strong predictor of virtual team performance. We discuss these findings and the implications for theory and design."
71	The Closer the Better: Similarity of Publication Pairs at Different Cocitation Levels	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We investigated the similarities of pairs of articles that are cocited at the different cocitation levels of the journal, article, section, paragraph, sentence, and bracket. Our results indicate that textual similarity, intellectual overlap (shared references), author overlap (shared authors), proximity in publication time all rise monotonically as the cocitation level gets lower (from journal to bracket). While the main gain in similarity happens when moving from journal to article cocitation, all level changes entail an increase in similarity, especially section to paragraph and paragraph to sentence/bracket levels. We compared the results from four journals over the years 2010-2015: Cell, the European Journal of Operational Research, Physics Letters B, and Research Policy, with consistent general outcomes and some interesting differences. Our findings motivate the use of granular cocitation information as defined by meaningful units of text, with implications for, among others, the elaboration of maps of science and the retrieval of scholarly literature."
72	"Effectiveness of OpenAIRE, BASE, Recolecta, and Google Scholar at Finding Spanish Articles in Repositories"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This paper explores the usefulness of OpenAIRE, BASE, Recolecta, and Google Scholar (GS) for evaluating open access (OA) policies that demand a deposit in a repository. A case study was designed focusing on 762 financed articles with a project of FIS-2012 of the Instituto de Salud Carlos III, the Spanish national health service's main management body for health research. Its finance is therefore subject to the Spanish Government OA mandate. A search was carried out for full-text OA copies of the 762 articles using the four tools being evaluated and with identification of the repository housing these items. Of the 762 articles concerned, 510 OA copies were found of 353 unique articles (46.3%) in 68 repositories. OA copies were found of 81.9% of the articles in PubMed Central and copies of 49.5% of the articles in an institutional repository (IR). BASE and GS identified 93.5% of the articles and OpenAIRE 86.7%. Recolecta identified just 62.2% of the articles deposited in a Spanish IR. BASE achieved the greatest success, by locating copies deposited in IR, while GS found those deposited in disciplinary repositories. None of the tools identified copies of all the articles, so they need to be used in a complementary way when evaluating OA policies."
73	Factors that influence the teaching use of Wikipedia in higher education	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"A key impact the Internet is having on university teaching involves the new choices being provided because of open educational content. Wikipedia is a clear example of these new options. It is a gigantic open repository of knowledge, and it can also be considered a platform that facilitates collaboration in knowledge creation and dissemination. Our research objective is to understand what the main factors are that influence the teaching uses of Wikipedia among university faculty. Based on a technology acceptance model, and using data from a survey sent to all faculty members of the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, we analyze the relationships within the internal and external constructs of the model. We found that both the perception of colleagues' opinions about Wikipedia and the perceived quality of the information in Wikipedia play a central role. These two constructs have a significant direct impact on the perceived usefulness of Wikipedia. This perceived usefulness affects, mediated by the behavioral intention of using Wikipedia, the effective use behavior of the encyclopedia. The degree to which an individual considers it is important to participate in open collaborative environments and the Web 2.0 profile of the faculty members also play an important role in our model."
74	"Data, ideology, and the developing critical program of social informatics"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The rapidly shifting ideological terrain of computing has a profound impact on Social Informatics's critical and empirical analysis of computerization movements. As these movements incorporate many of the past critiques concerning social fit and situational context leveled against them by Social Informatics research, more subtle and more deeply ingrained modes of ideological practice have risen to support movements of computerization. Among these, the current emphasis on the promises of data and data analytics presents the most obvious ideological challenge. In order to reorient Social Informatics in relation to these new ideological challenges, Louis Althusser's theory of ideology is discussed, with its implications for Social Informatics considered. Among these implications, a changed relationship between Social Informatics's critical stance and its reliance on empirical methods is advanced. Addressed at a fundamental level, the practice of Social Informatics comes to be reoriented in a more distinctly reflective and ethical direction."
75	On online collaboration and construction of shared knowledge: Assessing mediation capability in computer supported argument visualization tools	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Collaborative Computer-Supported Argument Visualization (CCSAV) has often been proposed as an alternative over more conventional, mainstream platforms for online discussion (e.g., online forums and wikis). CCSAV tools require users to contribute to the creation of a joint artifact (argument map) instead of contributing to a conversation. In this paper we assess empirically the effects of this fundamental design choice and show that the absence of conversational affordances and socially salient information in representation-centric tools is detrimental to the users' collaboration experience. We report empirical findings from a study in which subjects using different collaborative platforms (a forum, an argumentation platform, and a socially augmented argumentation tool) were asked to discuss and predict the price of a commodity. By comparing users' experience across several metrics we found evidence that the collaborative performance decreases gradually when we remove conversational interaction and other types of socially salient information. We interpret these findings through theories developed in conversational analysis (common ground theory) and communities of practice and discuss design implications. In particular, we propose balancing the trade-off between knowledge reification and participation in representation-centric tools with the provision of social feedback and functionalities supporting meaning negotiation."
76	Social network analysis on a topic-based navigation guidance system in a public health portal	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We investigated a topic-based navigation guidance system in the World Health Organization portal, compared the link connection network and the semantic connection network derived from the guidance system, analyzed the characteristics of the 2 networks from the perspective of the node centrality (in_closeness, out_closeness, betweenness, in_degree, and out_degree), and provided the suggestions to optimize and enhance the topic-based navigation guidance system. A mixed research method that combines the social network analysis method, clustering analysis method, and inferential analysis methods was used. The clustering analysis results of the link connection network were quite different from those of the semantic connection network. There were significant differences between the link connection network and the semantic network in terms of density and centrality. Inferential analysis results show that there were no strong correlations between the centrality of a node and its topic information characteristics. Suggestions for enhancing the navigation guidance system are discussed in detail. Future research directions, such as application of the same research method presented in this study to other similar public health portals, are also included."
77	How users employ various popular tags to annotate resources in social tagging: An empirical study	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This paper focuses on exploring the usage patterns and regularities of co-employment of various popular tags and their relationships with the activeness of users and the interest level of resources in social tagging. A hypernetwork for social tagging is constructed in which a tagging action is expressed as a hyperedge and the user, resource, and tag are expressed as nodes. Quantitative measures for the constructed hypernetwork are defined, including the hyperdegree and its distribution, the excess average hyperdegree, and the hyperdegree conditional probability distribution. Using the data set from Delicious, an empirical study was conducted. The empirical results show that multiple individual tags and one or very few popular tags are generally employed together in one tagging action, and the usage patterns and regularities of tags with varying popularity are correlated to both user activity and resource interest. The empirical results are further discussed and explained from the perspectives of tag functions and motivations. Finally, suggestions regarding the usage of various popular tags for both tagging users and service providers of social tagging are given."
78	A knowledge-based approach to Information Extraction for semantic interoperability in the archaeology domain	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The article presents a method for automatic semantic indexing of archaeological grey-literature reports using empirical (rule-based) Information Extraction techniques in combination with domain-specific knowledge organization systems. The semantic annotation system (OPTIMA) performs the tasks of Named Entity Recognition, Relation Extraction, Negation Detection, and Word-Sense Disambiguation using hand-crafted rules and terminological resources for associating contextual abstractions with classes of the standard ontology CIDOC Conceptual Reference Model (CRM) for cultural heritage and its archaeological extension, CRM-EH. Relation Extraction (RE) performance benefits from a syntactic-based definition of RE patterns derived from domain oriented corpus analysis. The evaluation also shows clear benefit in the use of assistive natural language processing (NLP) modules relating to Word-Sense Disambiguation, Negation Detection, and Noun Phrase Validation, together with controlled thesaurus expansion. The semantic indexing results demonstrate the capacity of rule-based Information Extraction techniques to deliver interoperable semantic abstractions (semantic annotations) with respect to the CIDOC CRM and archaeological thesauri. Major contributions include recognition of relevant entities using shallow parsing NLP techniques driven by a complimentary use of ontological and terminological domain resources and empirical derivation of context-driven RE rules for the recognition of semantic relationships from phrases of unstructured text."
79	The Conditions of Peak Empiricism in Big Data and Interaction Design	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"An influx of mechanisms for the collection of large sets of data has prompted widespread consideration of the impact that data analytic methods can have on a number of disciplines. Having an established record of the use of a unique mixture of empirical methods, the work of understanding and designing for user behavior is well situated to take advantage of the advances claimed by ""big data"" methods. Beyond any straightforward benefit of the use of large sets of data, such an increase in the scale of empirical evidence has far-reaching implications for the work of empirically guided design. We develop the concept of ""peak empiricism"" to explain the new role that large-scale data comes to play in design, one in which data become more than a simple empirical tool. In providing such an expansive empirical setting for design, big data weakens the subjective conditions necessary for empirical insight, pointing to a more performative approach to the relationship between a designer and his or her work. In this, the work of design is characterized as ""thinking with"" the data in a partnership that weakens not only any sense of empiricism but also the agentive foundations of a classical view of design work."
80	Users' Music Information Needs and Behaviors: Design Implications for Music Information Retrieval Systems	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"User studies in the music information retrieval (MIR) domain tend to be exploratory and qualitative in nature, involving a small number of users, which makes it difficult to derive broader implications for system design. In order to fill this gap, we conducted a large-scale user survey questioning various aspects of people's music information needs and behaviors. In particular, we investigated if general music users' needs and behaviors have significantly changed over time by comparing our current survey results with a similar survey conducted in 2004. In this paper, we present the key findings from the survey data and discuss 4 emergent themes-(a) the shift in access and use of personal music collections; (b) the growing need for tools to support collaborative music seeking, listening, and sharing; (c) the importance of ""visual"" music experiences; and (d) the need for ontologies for providing rich contextual information. We conclude by making specific recommendations for improving the design of MIR systems and services."
81	What Motivates People to Review Articles? The Case of the Human-Computer Interaction Community	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Recruiting qualified reviewers, though challenging, is crucial for ensuring a fair and robust scholarly peer review process. We conducted a survey of 307 reviewers of submissions to the International Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2011) to gain a better understanding of their motivations for reviewing. We found that encouraging high-quality research, giving back to the research community, and finding out about new research were the top general motivations for reviewing. We further found that relevance of the submission to a reviewer's research and relevance to the reviewer's expertise were the strongest motivations for accepting a request to review, closely followed by a number of social factors. Gender and reviewing experience significantly affected some reviewing motivations, such as the desire for learning and preparing for higher reviewing roles. We discuss implications of our findings for the design of future peer review processes and systems to support them."
82	The Decision to Submit to a Journal: Another Example of a Valence-Consistent Shift?	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In this article we use a stated choice experiment to study researcher preferences in the information sciences and to investigate the relative importance of different journal characteristics in convincing potential authors to submit to a particular journal. The analysis distinguishes high quality from standard quality articles and focuses on the question whether communicating acceptance rates rather than rejection rates leads to other submission decisions. Our results show that a positive framing effect might be present when authors decide on submitting a high quality article. No evidence of a framing effect is found when authors consider a standard quality article. From a journal marketing perspective, this is important information for editors. Communicating acceptance rates rather than rejection rates might help to convince researchers to submit to their journal."
83	Social Scientists' Satisfaction With Data Reuse	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Much of the recent research on digital data repositories has focused on assessing either the trustworthiness of the repository or quantifying the frequency of data reuse. Satisfaction with the data reuse experience, however, has not been widely studied. Drawing from the information systems and information science literature, we developed a model to examine the relationship between data quality and data reusers' satisfaction. Based on a survey of 1,480 journal article authors who cited Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) data in published papers from 2008-2012, we found several data quality attributes-completeness, accessibility, ease of operation, and credibility-had significant positive associations with data reusers' satisfaction. There was also a significant positive relationship between documentation quality and data reusers' satisfaction."
84	Distortive Effects of Initial-Based Name Disambiguation on Measurements of Large-Scale Coauthorship Networks	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Scholars have often relied on name initials to resolve name ambiguities in large-scale coauthorship network research. This approach bears the risk of incorrectly merging or splitting author identities. The use of initial-based disambiguation has been justified by the assumption that such errors would not affect research findings too much. This paper tests that assumption by analyzing coauthorship networks from five academic fields-biology, computer science, nanoscience, neuroscience, and physics-and an interdisciplinary journal, PNAS. Name instances in data sets of this study were disambiguated based on heuristics gained from previous algorithmic disambiguation solutions. We use disambiguated data as a proxy of ground-truth to test the performance of three types of initial-based disambiguation. Our results show that initial-based disambiguation can misrepresent statistical properties of coauthorship networks: It deflates the number of unique authors, number of components, average shortest paths, clustering coefficient, and assortativity, while it inflates average productivity, density, average coauthor number per author, and largest component size. Also, on average, more than half of top 10 productive or collaborative authors drop off the lists. Asian names were found to account for the majority of misidentification by initial-based disambiguation due to their common surname and given name initials."
85	How people protect their privacy on facebook: A cost-benefit view	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Realizing the many benefits from Facebook require users to share information reciprocally, which has overtime created trillions of bytes of information onlinea treasure trove for cybercriminals. The sole protection for any user are three sets of privacy protections afforded by Facebook: settings that control information privacy (i.e., security of social media accounts and identity information), accessibility privacy or anonymity (i.e., manage who can connect with a user), and those that control expressive privacy (i.e., control who can see a user's posts and tag you). Using these settings, however, involves a trade-off between making oneself accessible and thereby vulnerable to potential attacks, or enacting stringent protections that could potentially make someone inaccessible thereby reducing the benefits that are accruable through social media. Using two theoretical frameworks, Uses and Gratifications (U&G) and Protection Motivation Theory (PMT), the research examined how individuals congitvely juxtaposed the cost of maintaining privacy through the use of these settings against the benefits of openness. The application of the U&G framework revealed that social need fulfillment was the single most significant benefit driving privacy management. From the cost standpoint, the PMT framework pointed to perceived severity impacting expressive and information privacy, and perceived susceptability influencing accessibility privacy."
86	"National scientific performance evolution patterns: Retrenchment, successful expansion, or overextension"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"National governments would like to preside over an expanding and increasingly high-impact science system but are these two goals largely independent or closely linked? This article investigates the relationship between changes in the share of the world's scientific output and changes in relative citation impact for 2.6 million articles from 26 fields in the 25 countries with the most Scopus-indexed journal articles from 1996 to 2015. There is a negative correlation between expansion and relative citation impact, but their relationship varies. China, Spain, Australia, and Poland were successful overall across the 26 fields, expanding both their share of the world's output and its relative citation impact, whereas Japan, France, Sweden, and Israel had decreased shares and relative citation impact. In contrast, the USA, UK, Germany, Italy, Russia, The Netherlands, Switzerland, Finland, and Denmark all enjoyed increased relative citation impact despite a declining share of publications. Finally, India, South Korea, Brazil, Taiwan, and Turkey all experienced sustained expansion but a recent fall in relative citation impact. These results may partly reflect changes in the coverage of Scopus and the selection of fields."
87	"Embedded, added, cocreated: Revisiting the value of information in an age of data"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article proposes that the value of information is a topic worth revisiting in the contemporary era. Although the topic has been of perennial interest to information professionals and others, since at the least the early 1980s, we believe that it is timely to revisit this question in the context of a more connected and networked environment of data, information, and knowledge. The principal argument is that existing models of information exchange and use do not sufficiently take account of the multiplicity of networked users as a source of value, for example, their implicit and explicit interactions with other users, and with the information system. We briefly review existing kinds of value that have been theorized, operationalized, and measured in the information science literature. Principally, these are the notions of information as embedded value; and information and information systems as adding value. To these notions we add the further notion of connected or cocreated value. We conclude our opinion article with a set of questions intended to orient future research into the question of the value of information in the contemporary era."
88	Scale-free collaboration networks: An author name disambiguation perspective	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Several studies have found that collaboration networks are scale-free, proposing that such networks can be modeled by specific network evolution mechanisms like preferential attachment. This study argues that collaboration networks can look more or less scale-free depending on the methods for resolving author name ambiguity in bibliographic data. Analyzing networks constructed from multiple datasets containing 3.4 M similar to 9.6 M publication records, this study shows that collaboration networks in which author names are disambiguated by the commonly used heuristic, i.e., forename-initial-based name matching, tend to produce degree distributions better fitted to power-law slopes with the typical scaling parameter (2 < alpha < 3) than networks disambiguated by more accurate algorithm-based methods. Such tendency is observed across collaboration networks generated under various conditions such as cumulative years, 5- and 1-year sliding windows, and random sampling, and through simulation, found to arise due mainly to artefactual entities created by inaccurate disambiguation. This cautionary study calls for special attention from scholars analyzing network data in which entities such as people, organization, and gene can be merged or split by improper disambiguation."
89	CLEU - A Cross-language english-urdu corpus and benchmark for text reuse experiments	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Text reuse is becoming a serious issue in many fields and research shows that it is much harder to detect when it occurs across languages. The recent rise in multi-lingual content on the Web has increased cross-language text reuse to an unprecedented scale. Although researchers have proposed methods to detect it, one major drawback is the unavailability of large-scale gold standard evaluation resources built on real cases. To overcome this problem, we propose a cross-language sentence/passage level text reuse corpus for the English-Urdu language pair. The Cross-Language English-Urdu Corpus (CLEU) has source text in English whereas the derived text is in Urdu. It contains in total 3,235 sentence/passage pairs manually tagged into three categories that is near copy, paraphrased copy, and independently written. Further, as a second contribution, we evaluate the Translation plus Mono-lingual Analysis method using three sets of experiments on the proposed dataset to highlight its usefulness. Evaluation results (f(1)=0.732 binary, f(1)=0.552 ternary classification) indicate that it is harder to detect cross-language real cases of text reuse, especially when the language pairs have unrelated scripts. The corpus is a useful benchmark resource for the future development and assessment of cross-language text reuse detection systems for the English-Urdu language pair."
90	"Connections above and beyond: Information, translation, and community boundaries in LibraryThing and Goodreads"	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The connections and contexts surrounding information shared in social settings must be accounted for, and this is particularly true for online communities that are information-centric. This article presents a mixed-methods study of LibraryThing and Goodreads, which have characteristics of information-centric online communities and social digital libraries, with attention to their roles as boundary objects, users' information values, and information behavior, and other boundaries and boundary objects at play. Content analysis of messages, a survey of users, and qualitative interviews show LibraryThing and Goodreads help establish community and organizational structure; support sharing of information values; and facilitate the building and maintenance of social ties. Translation of meanings and understandings within and between communities is a key activity in these roles. Online communities and social digital libraries should highlight translation processes and resources; provide user profiles and off-topic spaces and encourage their use; take a sociotechnical approach to tailor technology and community features to the right audiences; and facilitate the establishment of shared structure, values, and ties and the work of boundary spanners. Further implications exist for research on and theorizing of information-centric online communities, boundaries, and boundary objects as part of the sociotechnical infrastructure surrounding online information sharing."
91	"Motivations, understandings, and experiences of open-access mega-journal authors: Results of a large-scale survey"	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Open-access mega-journals (OAMJs) are characterized by their large scale, wide scope, open-access (OA) business model, and ""soundness-only"" peer review. The last of these controversially discounts the novelty, significance, and relevance of submitted articles and assesses only their ""soundness."" This article reports the results of an international survey of authors (n = 11,883), comparing the responses of OAMJ authors with those of other OA and subscription journals, and drawing comparisons between different OAMJs. Strikingly, OAMJ authors showed a low understanding of soundness-only peer review: two-thirds believed OAMJs took into account novelty, significance, and relevance, although there were marked geographical variations. Author satisfaction with OAMJs, however, was high, with more than 80% of OAMJ authors saying they would publish again in the same journal, although there were variations by title, and levels were slightly lower than subscription journals (over 90%). Their reasons for choosing to publish in OAMJs included a wide variety of factors, not significantly different from reasons given by authors of other journals, with the most important including the quality of the journal and quality of peer review. About half of OAMJ articles had been submitted elsewhere before submission to the OAMJ with some evidence of a ""cascade"" of articles between journals from the same publisher."
92	Investigating the role of eye movements and physiological signals in search satisfaction prediction using geometric analysis	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Two general challenges faced by data analysis are the existence of noise and the extraction of meaningful information from collected data. In this study, we used a multiscale framework to reduce the effects caused by noise and to extract explainable geometric properties to characterize finite metric spaces. We conducted lab experiments that integrated the use of eye-tracking, electrodermal activity (EDA), and user logs to explore users' information-seeking behaviors on search engine result pages (SERPs). Experimental results of 1,590 search queries showed that the proposed strategies effectively predicted query-level user satisfaction using EDA and eye-tracking data. The bootstrap analysis showed that combining EDA and eye-tracking data with user behavior data extracted from user logs led to a significantly better linear model fit than using user behavior data alone. Furthermore, cross-user and cross-task validations showed that our methods can be generalized to different search engine users performing different preassigned tasks."
93	"Social Informatics Research: Schools of Thought, Methodological Basis, and Thematic Conceptualization"	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Research activities related to social informatics (SI) are expanding, even as community fragmentation, topical dispersion, and methodological diversity continue to increase. Specifically, the different understandings of SI in regional communities have strong impacts, and each has a different history, methodological grounding, and often a different thematic focus. The aim of this article is to connect three selected perspectives on SI-intellectual (regional schools of thought), methodological, and thematic-and introduce a comparative framework for understanding SI that includes all known approaches. Thus, the article draws from a thematic and methodological grounding of research across schools of thought, along with definitions that rely on the extension and intension of the notion of SI. The article is built on a paralogy of views and pluralism typical of postmodern science. Because SI is forced to continually reform its research focus, due to the rapid development of information and communication technology, social changes and ideologies that surround computerization and informatization, the presented perspective maintains a high degree of flexibility, without the need to constantly redefine the boundaries, as is typical in modern science. This approach may support further developments in promoting and understanding SI worldwide."
94	Hands on: Information Experiences as Sources of Value	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Value perception increases when people engage in producing physical objects. However, information differs from physical objects by being intangible and easy-to-copy. Information as an experience good is inherently challenging to evaluate a priori; therefore, comparing value before and after different types of experience is likely to inform theory about users' preferences regarding information. Prior research mostly refers to consuming information and rarely considers the experience of producing information as a factor affecting information value. The current research compares the effect of experiencing online information through production and consumption processes on value perception. In a set of 6 experiments with 178 participants, willingness-to-pay by consumers and willingness-to-accept payment by producers are measured before and after consumption and production of information, independently and as repeated measures. In the experiments, we define and implement a framework for an information production process. The results show that the value of information is dynamic. Value perception increased after experiencing information, especially when people engaged in producing information compared to consuming it. This study offers a window toward the practical design of new digital information products."
95	Cultural Heritage Information Practices and iSchools Education for Achieving Sustainable Development	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Since 2015, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) began the process of inculcating culture as part of the United Nations' (UN) post-2015 Sustainable (former Millennium) Development Goals, which member countries agreed to achieve by 2030. By conducting a thematic analysis of the 25 UN commissioned reports and policy documents, this research identifies 14 broad cultural heritage information themes that need to be practiced in order to achieve cultural sustainability, of which information platforms, information sharing, information broadcast, information quality, information usage training, information access, information collection, and contribution appear to be the significant themes. An investigation of education on cultural heritage informatics and digital humanities at iSchools () using a gap analysis framework demonstrates the core information science skills required for cultural heritage education. The research demonstrates that: (i) a thematic analysis of cultural heritage policy documents can be used to explore the key themes for cultural informatics education and research that can lead to sustainable development; and (ii) cultural heritage information education should cover a series of skills that can be categorized in five key areas, viz., information, technology, leadership, application, and people and user skills."
96	Cultural Patterns of Information Source Use: A Global Study of 47 Countries	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The aim of this study was to investigate the relationships between national culture and information source use (ISU) on a global level. A secondary analysis was carried out on three different data sets. They were (a) country-level data on ISU from World Values Survey (2005-2009); (b) country-specific mean scores of Hofstede's national culture dimensions (HNCD) of individualism (IDV), power distance (PDI), time orientation, uncertainty avoidance (UAI), masculinity (MAS), and indulgence (IVR); and (c) measures of wealth. The analysis showed the importance of three national culture dimensions of PDI (the way people of a nation interact with authorities), IDV (the degree of centrality of person or groups in a country), and IVR (the agreeableness of joy and happiness in a country) for explaining the cross-cultural differences of ISU. The findings were explained through HNCD, and four cultural patterns of ISU were identified. However, further research is required to better understand the complex relationships of cultural factors, ISU, and other societal variables."
97	Identifying the business model dimensions of data sharing: A value-based approach	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study aimed to investigate the underlying business model of organizations that have data sharing at the core of their activities. Previous work has stressed that data-sharing projects need to be sustainable in the long term, and highlighted the need for a deeper understanding of the operation model of existing data-sharing initiatives. To investigate this important issue, we took a qualitative approach to uncover the dynamics of value creation in data sharing. Using a case study method, we examined two data-sharing sites across different areas. We conducted semistructured interviews with managers from data centers and other stakeholders, and reviewed documents about the technical and managerial practices to determine the main characteristics of their business models. In addition, we applied the e3-value modeling methodology to tease out the value flows within each site. Our findings demonstrated the importance of the value network dimension of a business model, as data sharing relies on a set of actors creating and getting value in the process, and the significance of intangible assets. The main contributions of this study include extending current understanding on data-sharing business models by analyzing key dimensions, and uncovering how value is created and transferred in data sharing."
98	"Synergy in the knowledge base of US innovation systems at national, state, and regional levels: The contributions of high-tech manufacturing and knowledge-intensive services"	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Using information theory, we measure innovation systemness as synergy among size-classes, ZIP Codes, and technological classes (NACE-codes) for 8.5 million American companies. The synergy at the national level is decomposed at the level of states, Core-Based Statistical Areas (CBSA), and Combined Statistical Areas (CSA). We zoom in to the state of California and in more detail to Silicon Valley. Our results do not support the assumption of a national system of innovations in the U.S.A. Innovation systems appear to operate at the level of the states; the CBSA are too small, so that systemness spills across their borders. Decomposition of the sample in terms of high-tech manufacturing (HTM), medium-high-tech manufacturing (MHTM), knowledge-intensive services (KIS), and high-tech services (HTKIS) does not change this pattern, but refines it. The East Coast-New Jersey, Boston, and New York-and California are the major players, with Texas a third one in the case of HTKIS. Chicago and industrial centers in the Midwest also contribute synergy. Within California, Los Angeles contributes synergy in the sectors of manufacturing, the San Francisco area in KIS. KIS in Silicon Valley and the Bay Area-a CSA composed of seven CBSA-spill over to other regions and even globally."
99	Does the web of science accurately represent chinese scientific performance?	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"With the significant development of China's economy and scientific activity, its scientific publication activity is experiencing a period of rapid growth. However, measuring China's research output remains a challenge because Chinese scholars may publish their research in either international or national journals, yet no bibliometric database covers both the Chinese and English scientific literature. The purpose of this study is to compare Web of Science (WoS) with a Chinese bibliometric database in terms of authors and their performance, demonstrate the extent of the overlap between the two groups of Chinese most productive authors in both international and Chinese bibliometric databases, and determine how different disciplines may affect this overlap. The results of this study indicate that Chinese bibliometric databases, or a combination of WoS and Chinese bibliometric databases, should be used to evaluate Chinese research performance except in the few disciplines in which Chinese research performance could be assessed using WoS only."
100	Communication and Self-Presentation Behavior on Academic Social Networking Sites: An Exploratory Case Study on Profiles and Discussion Threads on ResearchGate	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Several Academic Social Networking Sites (ASNSs) have been launched in the last few years and their number of members is growing. Researchers using ASNSs come from very divergent scientific backgrounds and academic levels, prompting one to ask the question, What kind of communication and self-presentation behaviors occur within these structures? The qualitative study presented in this article analyzed the communication behavior of a selected sample on ResearchGate (RG). It investigates how researchers present themselves on their personal-profile sites and how they interact with other researchers. Overall, the results show that mostly young male academics without previous connections to each other (for example, faculty colleges) use RG for their scholarly exchanges. In general, communication behavior is characterized by an objective, professional, unemotional choice of words and seldom the use of polite salutations or words of farewell. However, there seems to be a correlation between long discussion and an increased use of colloquial and emotional language. Based on our findings, we derived preliminary practical recommendations for communications on ASNSs to improve the relationships in online academic interactions, to foster inclusiveness of gender and culture, and to reduce insecurity in matters of communication, presentation, and the exchange of scientific data."
101	Teaching with Wikipedia in a 21st-Century Classroom: Perceptions of Wikipedia and Its Educational Benefits	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article explores the current perception of Wikipedia in academia, focusing on both the reasons for its unpopularity among some and the reasons for its growing acceptance among others. First, the reasons that Wikipedia is still struggling to gain acceptance among many academics and higher education professionals are identified. These include common misconceptions about Wikipedia, doubts about its quality, uneasiness with the challenge that it poses to the traditional peer-review system, and a lack of career-enhancing motivations related to using Wikipedia. Second, the benefits of teaching with Wikipedia for educators, students, and the wider society, as discussed in the current teaching literature, are explored. Finally, the article presents an argument for using Wikipedia in a variety of ways to help students develop critical and academic writing skills."
102	Why are these similar? Investigating item similarity types in a large digital library	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We introduce a new problem, identifying the type of relation that holds between a pair of similar items in a digital library. Being able to provide a reason why items are similar has applications in recommendation, personalization, and search. We investigate the problem within the context of Europeana, a large digital library containing items related to cultural heritage. A range of types of similarity in this collection were identified. A set of 1,500 pairs of items from the collection were annotated using crowdsourcing. A high intertagger agreement (average 71.5 Pearson correlation) was obtained and demonstrates that the task is well defined. We also present several approaches to automatically identifying the type of similarity. The best system applies linear regression and achieves a mean Pearson correlation of 71.3, close to human performance. The problem formulation and data set described here were used in a public evaluation exercise, the *SEM shared task on Semantic Textual Similarity. The task attracted the participation of 6 teams, who submitted 14 system runs. All annotations, evaluation scripts, and system runs are freely available.(1)"
103	Genetic algorithms and Gaussian Bayesian networks to uncover the predictive core set of bibliometric indices	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The diversity of bibliometric indices today poses the challenge of exploiting the relationships among them. Our research uncovers the best core set of relevant indices for predicting other bibliometric indices. An added difficulty is to select the role of each variable, that is, which bibliometric indices are predictive variables and which are response variables. This results in a novel multioutput regression problem where the role of each variable (predictor or response) is unknown beforehand. We use Gaussian Bayesian networks to solve the this problem and discover multivariate relationships among bibliometric indices. These networks are learnt by a genetic algorithm that looks for the optimal models that best predict bibliometric data. Results show that the optimal induced Gaussian Bayesian networks corroborate previous relationships between several indices, but also suggest new, previously unreported interactions. An extended analysis of the best model illustrates that a set of 12 bibliometric indices can be accurately predicted using only a smaller predictive core subset composed of citations, g-index, q(2)-index, and h(r)-index. This research is performed using bibliometric data on Spanish full professors associated with the computer science area."
104	Indexing by Latent Dirichlet Allocation and an Ensemble Model	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The contribution of this article is twofold. First, we present Indexing by latent Dirichlet allocation (LDI), an automatic document indexing method. Many ad hoc applications, or their variants with smoothing techniques suggested in LDA-based language modeling, can result in unsatisfactory performance as the document representations do not accurately reflect concept space. To improve document retrieval performance, we introduce a new definition of document probability vectors in the context of LDA and present a novel scheme for automatic document indexing based on LDA. Second, we propose an Ensemble Model (EnM) for document retrieval. EnM combines basic indexing models by assigning different weights and attempts to uncover the optimal weights to maximize the mean average precision. To solve the optimization problem, we propose an algorithm, which is derived based on the boosting method. The results of our computational experiments on benchmark data sets indicate that both the proposed approaches are viable options for document retrieval."
105	"The ""total cost of publication"" in a hybrid open-access environment: Institutional approaches to funding journal article-processing charges in combination with subscriptions"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"As open-access (OA) publishing funded by article-processing charges (APCs) becomes more widely accepted, academic institutions need to be aware of the total cost of publication (TCP), comprising subscription costs plus APCs and additional administration costs. This study analyzes data from 23 UK institutions covering the period 2007-2014 modeling the TCP. It shows a clear rise in centrally managed APC payments from 2012 onward, with payments projected to increase further. As well as evidencing the growing availability and acceptance of OA publishing, these trends reflect particular UK policy developments and funding arrangements intended to accelerate the move toward OA publishing (Gold OA). Although the mean value of APCs has been relatively stable, there was considerable variation in APC prices paid by institutions since 2007. In particular, hybrid subscription/OA journals were consistently more expensive than fully OA journals. Most APCs were paid to large traditional commercial publishers who also received considerable subscription income. New administrative costs reported by institutions varied considerably. The total cost of publication modeling shows that APCs are now a significant part of the TCP for academic institutions, in 2013 already constituting an average of 10% of the TCP (excluding administrative costs)."
106	Bridging the gap between wikipedia and academia	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In this opinion piece, we would like to present a short literature review of perceptions and reservations towards Wikipedia in academia, address the common questions about overall reliability of Wikipedia entries, review the actual practices of Wikipedia usage in academia, and conclude with possible scenarios for a peaceful coexistence. Because Wikipedia is a regular topic of JASIST publications (Lim, 2009; Meseguer-Artola, Aibar, Llados, Minguillon, & Lerga, ; Mesgari, Okoli, Mehdi, Nielsen, & Lanamaki, ; Okoli, Mehdi, Mesgari, Nielsen, & Lanamaki, ), we hope to start a useful discussion with the right audience."
107	Defining Textual Entailment	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Textual entailment is a relationship that obtains between fragments of text when one fragment in some sense implies the other fragment. The automation of textual entailment recognition supports a wide variety of text-based tasks, including information retrieval, information extraction, question answering, text summarization, and machine translation. Much ingenuity has been devoted to developing algorithms for identifying textual entailments, but relatively little to saying what textual entailment actually is. This article is a review of the logical and philosophical issues involved in providing an adequate definition of textual entailment. We show that many natural definitions of textual entailment are refuted by counterexamples, including the most widely cited definition of Dagan et al. We then articulate and defend the following revised definition: T textually entails H = (df) typically, a human reading T would be justified in inferring the proposition expressed by H from the proposition expressed by T. We also show that textual entailment is context-sensitive, nontransitive, and nonmonotonic."
108	The Birth of Collective Memories: Analyzing Emerging Entities in Text Streams	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We study how collective memories are formed online. We do so by tracking entities that emerge in public discourse, that is, in online text streams such as social media and news streams, before they are incorporated into Wikipedia, which, we argue, can be viewed as an online place for collective memory. By tracking how entities emerge in public discourse, that is, the temporal patterns between their first mention in online text streams and subsequent incorporation into collective memory, we gain insights into how the collective remembrance process happens online. Specifically, we analyze nearly 80,000 entities as they emerge in online text streams before they are incorporated into Wikipedia. The online text streams we use for our analysis comprise of social media and news streams, and span over 579 million documents in a time span of 18 months. We discover two main emergence patterns: entities that emerge in a ""bursty"" fashion, that is, that appear in public discourse without a precedent, blast into activity and transition into collective memory. Other entities display a ""delayed"" pattern, where they appear in public discourse, experience a period of inactivity, and then resurface before transitioning into our cultural collective memory."
109	Information-Seeking Processes as Temporal Developments: Comparison of Stage-based and Cyclic Approaches	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Drawing on the ideas of process philosophy, this study elaborates the nature of information-seeking process by approaching them as temporal developments. To this end, a conceptual analysis was made by comparing key models which approach information seeking as stage-based and cyclic processes. The nature of such processes was scrutinized by devoting attention to two main aspects, that is, the temporal order in which the constituents of information seeking appear during the process, and the changes occurring in the constituents. Stage-based approaches draw on linear time concept by conceptualizing such processes as sets of consecutive activities progressing toward a final point. Cyclic approaches conceptualize information-seeking processes as sets of iterative activities which may be repeated. The findings suggest that stage-based and cyclic approaches should not be opposite approaches; rather, they complement each other. However, cyclic models emphasizing the importance of feedback loops have gained more popularity in the modeling of web searching, whereas the interest in the development of stage-based approaches has decreased since the 1990s."
110	Managing Hypervisibility in the HIV Prevention Information-Seeking Practices of Black Female College Students	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"While information resources have contributed to the overall decline in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections in the United States, these benefits have not been experienced equally. Our article describes formative research conducted as part of a larger study focused on the development of an online HIV prevention platform tailored for Black female college students. To inform the design of our platform, we conducted focus groups with 60 Black women enrolled at two predominantly White institutions (PWIs). The purpose of the focus groups was to understand information needs, awareness of specific information resources, and the search strategies employed for finding and evaluating HIV prevention information. We used hypervisibility as a sensitizing lens for making sense of how the intersecting gender and racial identities of Black womanhood shape informationseeking behavior. Four themes emerged: platform choice and privacy, relatability, respectability politics, and silence on campus. The themes depict discursive representations specific to Black female identity to manage stigma, reduce their hypervisibility, and amplify their authentic voices in the broader HIV prevention discourse. Our findings contribute to human information behavior scholarship on marginalized groups."
111	Information Technology and the Humanities Scholar: Documenting Digital Research Practices	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Digital tools offer new affordances and methodologies to humanities scholars' research. This study used a constructivist grounded theory approach to examine humanities scholars' research practices, including their use of a wide range of resources and digital technologies. Using in-depth study, several themes emerged from the research relating to the role of technology in shaping humanities scholars' research practices. The themes include: (a) humanities scholars' research approaches and technology tools; (b) the humanities scholar as tool developer; (c) the role of data preparation as a meta-level research practice; (d) data visualization versus numeric outputs-one size does not fit all; (e) the importance of flexibility and agency; (f) technology tools in support of the researcher as writer; and (g) working alone/working together-technology tools and collaborative practice. The heterogeneous nature of humanities scholars' research practices are explored and the resulting implications for digital tool design. Two new research practices-tool development and data preparation-are proposed. The diverse digital technologies humanities scholars use support the traditional ways of working within their discipline, as well as creating potential for new scholarly practices."
112	Conflicting measures and values: How humanities scholars in Australia and Sweden use and react to bibliometric indicators	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"While bibliometric indicators, such as the journal impact factor, have long played an important role in many STEM disciplines it has been repeatedly shown that established bibliometric methods have limited use in the humanities. Using a questionnaire on metrics use and publication practices in Australia and Sweden, we tested the assumption that indicators play a minor role among humanities scholars. Our findings show that our respondents use indicators to a considerable degree, with a range of indicators and rankings being employed. The scholars use metrics as part of institutional policy, in CVs and applications, as well as for general promotion of their work. Notable in our results is that a much larger share of researchers (62%) in Australia used metrics compared to Sweden (14%). Scholar's attitudes regarding bibliometrics are mixed; many are critical of these measures, while at the same time feeling pressured to use them. One main tension described by our respondents is between intradisciplinary criteria of quality and formalized indicators, and negotiating these ""orders of worth"" is a challenging balancing act, especially for younger researchers."
113	Ideation as an Intellectual Information Acquisition and Use Context: Investigating Game Designers' Information-Based Ideation Behavior	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Human Information Behavior (HIB) research commonly examines behavior in the context of why information is acquired and how it will be used, but usually at the level of the work or everyday-life tasks the information will support. HIB has not been examined in detail at the broader contextual level of intellectual purpose (that is, the higher-order conceptual tasks the information was acquired to support). Examination at this level can enhance holistic understanding of HIB as a ""means to an intellectual end"" and inform the design of digital information environments that support information interaction for specific intellectual purposes. We investigate information-based ideation (IBI) as a specific intellectual information acquisition and use context by conducting Critical Incident-style interviews with 10 game designers, focusing on how they interact with information to generate and develop creative design ideas. Our findings give rise to a framework of their ideation-focused HIB, which systems designers can leverage to reason about how best to support certain behaviors to drive design ideation. These findings emphasize the importance of intellectual purpose as a driver for acquisition and desired outcome of use."
114	Separating and Merging Professional and Personal Selves Online: The Structure and Processes That Shape Academics' Ego-Networks on Academic Social Networking Sites and Twitter	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Academic social networking sites seek to bring the benefits of online networking to an academic audience. The ability to make connections to others is a defining characteristic of the sites, but what types of networks are formed, and what are the implications of the structures? This study addressed that question through mixed methods social network analysis, focusing on Academia. edu, ResearchGate, and Twitter, as three of the main sites used by academics in their professional lives. The structure of academics' ego-networks on social networking sites differs by platform. Networks on academic sites were smaller and more highly clustered, whereas Twitter networks were larger and more diffuse. Institutions and research interests define communities on academic sites, compared with research topics and personal interests on Twitter. The network structures reflect differences in how academics conceptualize different sites and have implications in relation to fostering social capital and research impact."
115	PaperPoles: Facilitating Adaptive Visual Exploration of Scientific Publications by Citation Links	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Finding relevant publications is a common task. Typically, a researcher browses through a list of publications and traces additional relevant publications. When relevant publications are identified, the list may be expanded by the citation links of the relevant publications. The information needs of researchers may change as they go through such iterative processes. The exploration process quickly becomes cumbersome as the list expands. Most existing academic search systems tend to be limited in terms of the extent to which searchers can adapt their search as they proceed. In this article, we introduce an adaptive visual exploration system named PaperPoles to support exploration of scientific publications in a context-aware environment. Searchers can express their information needs by intuitively formulating positive and negative queries. The search results are grouped and displayed in a cluster view, which shows aspects and relevance patterns of the results to support navigation and exploration. We conducted an experiment to compare PaperPoles with a list-based interface in performing two academic search tasks with different complexity. The results show that PaperPoles can improve the accuracy of searching for the simple and complex tasks. It can also reduce the completion time of searching and improve exploration effectiveness in the complex task. PaperPoles demonstrates a potentially effective workflow for adaptive visual search of complex information."
116	Digital Data Archives as Knowledge Infrastructures: Mediating Data Sharing and Reuse	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Digital archives are the preferred means for open access to research data. They play essential roles in knowledge infrastructures-robust networks of people, artifacts, and institutions-but little is known about how they mediate information exchange between stakeholders. We open the ""black box"" of data archives by studying DANS, the Data Archiving and Networked Services institute of The Netherlands, which manages 50+ years of data from the social sciences, humanities, and other domains. Our interviews, weblogs, ethnography, and document analyses reveal that a few large contributors provide a steady flow of content, but most are academic researchers who submit data sets infrequently and often restrict access to their files. Consumers are a diverse group that overlaps minimally with contributors. Archivists devote about half their time to aiding contributors with curation processes and half to assisting consumers. Given the diversity and infrequency of usage, human assistance in curation and search remains essential. DANS' knowledge infrastructure encompasses public and private stakeholders who contribute, consume, harvest, and serve their data-many of whom did not exist at the time the DANS collections originated-reinforcing the need for continuous investment in digital data archives as their communities, technologies, and services evolve."
117	Places in Information Science	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Human spatial concepts, such as the concept of place, are not immediately translatable to the geometric foundations of spatial databases and information systems developed over the past 50 years. These systems typically rest on the concepts of objects and fields, both bound to coordinates, as two general paradigms of geographic representation. The match between notions of place occurring in everyday where questions and the data available to answer such questions is unclear and hinders progress in place-based information systems. This is particularly true in novel application areas such as the Digital Humanities or speech-based human-computer interaction, but also for location-based services. Although this shortcoming has been observed before, we approach the challenges of relating places to information system representations with a fresh view, based on a set of core concepts of spatial information. These concepts have been proposed in information science with the intent of serving human-machine spatial question asking and answering. Clarifying the relationship of the notion of place to these concepts is a significant step toward geographically intelligent systems. The main result of the article is a demonstration that the notion of place fits existing concepts of spatial information, when these are adequately exploited and combined."
118	Opinion Convergence versus Polarization: Examining Opinion Distributions in Online Word-of-Mouth	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We examine how opinion distributions (i.e., opinion polarization and convergence over time) differ across product salient platforms (product platforms) versus product non-salient platforms (non-product platforms). Drawing on the theory of impression management, we hypothesize and explain when and why consumers choose to post their comments on different platforms, and how their behavior will be affected when they choose to post on online platforms. To test the hypotheses, we collected and text-mined online posts from product platforms such as review aggregator sites, discussion forums, and consumer rating websites, and non-product platforms such as microblogs. The results showed that product platforms have more polarized opinions, and exhibit more convergence in opinion across time, compared with non-product platforms. Our findings advise researchers and practitioners to pay attention to the characteristics of online platforms, and how users' perceptions of the purpose of the online platform may affect their online posting behavior."
119	The Role of Domain Knowledge in Document Selection From Search Results	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"It is a frequently seen scenario that when people are not familiar with their search topics, they use a simple keyword search, which leads to a large amount of search results in multiple pages. This makes it difficult for users to pick relevant documents, especially given that they are not knowledgeable of the topics. To explore how systems can better help users find relevant documents from search results, the current research analyzed document selection behaviors of users with different levels of domain knowledge (DK). Data were collected in a laboratory study with 35 participants each searching on four tasks in the genomics domain. The results show that users with high and low DK levels selected different sets of documents to view; those high in DK read more documents and gave higher relevance ratings for the viewed documents than those low in DK did. Users with low DK tended to select documents ranking toward the top of the search result lists, and those with high in DK tended to also select documents ranking down the search result lists. The findings help design search systems that can personalize search results to users with different levels of DK."
120	Understanding User Behavior in Naturalistic Information Search Tasks	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Understanding users' search behavior has largely relied on the information available from search engine logs, which provide limited information about the contextual factors affecting users' behavior. Consequently, questions such as how users' intentions, task goals, and substances of the users' tasks affect search behavior, as well as what triggers information needs, remain largely unanswered. We report an experiment in which naturalistic information search behavior was captured by analyzing 24/7 continuous recordings of information on participants' computer screens. Written task diaries describing the participants' tasks were collected and used as real-life task contexts for further categorization. All search tasks were extracted and classified under various task categories according to users' intentions, task goals, and substances of the tasks. We investigated the effect of different task categories on three behavioral factors: search efforts, content-triggers, and application context. Our results suggest four findings: (i) Search activity is integrally associated with the users' creative processes. The content users have seen prior to searching more often triggers search, and is used as a query, within creative tasks. (ii) Searching within intellectual and creative tasks is more time-intensive, while search activity occurring as a part of daily routine tasks is associated with more frequent searching within a search task. (iii) Searching is more often induced from utility applications in tasks demanding a degree of intellectual effort. (iv) Users' leisure information-seeking activity is occurring inherently within social media services or comes from social communication platforms. The implications of our findings for information access and management systems are discussed."
121	An Investigation of the Impact of Data Breach Severity on the Readability of Mandatory Data Breach Notification Letters: Evidence From US Firms	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The aim of this article is to investigate the impact of data breach severity on the readability of mandatory data breach notification letters. Using a content analysis approach to determine data breach severity attributes (measured by the total number of breached records, type of data accessed, the source of the data breach, and how the data were used), in conjunction with readability measures (reading complexity, numerical intensity, length of letter, word size, and unique words), 512 data breach incidents from 281 U.S. firms across the 2012-2015 period were examined. The results indicate that data breach severity has a positive impact on reading complexity, length of letter, word size, and unique words, and a negative impact on numerical terms. Interpreting the results collectively through the lens of impression management, it can be inferred that business managers may be attempting to obfuscate bad news associated with high data breach severity incidents by manipulating syntactical features of the data breach notification letters in a way that makes the message difficult for individuals to comprehend. The study contributes to the information studies and impression management behavior literatures by analyzing linguistic cues in notifications following a data breach incident."
122	How integration of cyber security management and incident response enables organizational learning	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Digital assets of organizations are under constant threat from a wide assortment of nefarious actors. When threats materialize, the consequences can be significant. Most large organizations invest in a dedicated information security management (ISM) function to ensure that digital assets are protected. The ISM function conducts risk assessments, develops strategy, provides policies and training to define roles and guide behavior, and implements technological controls such as firewalls, antivirus, and encryption to restrict unauthorized access. Despite these protective measures, incidents (security breaches) will occur. Alongside the security management function, many organizations also retain an incident response (IR) function to mitigate damage from an attack and promptly restore digital services. However, few organizations integrate and learn from experiences of these functions in an optimal manner that enables them to not only respond to security incidents, but also proactively maneuver the threat environment. In this article we draw on organizational learning theory to develop a conceptual framework that explains how the ISM and IR functions can be better integrated. The strong integration of ISM and IR functions, in turn, creates learning opportunities that lead to organizational security benefits including: increased awareness of security risks, compilation of threat intelligence, removal of flaws in security defenses, evaluation of security defensive logic, and enhanced security response."
123	"Consolidated, systemic conceptualization, and definition of the ""sharing economy"""	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The ""sharing economy"" has recently emerged as a major global phenomenon in practice and is consequently an important research topic. What, precisely, is meant by this term, ""sharing economy""? The literature to date offers many, often incomplete and conflicting definitions. This makes it difficult for researchers to lead a coherent discourse, to compare findings and to select appropriate cases. Alternative terms (e.g., ""collaborative consumption,"" ""gig economy,"" and ""access economy"") are a further complication. To resolve this issue, our article develops a consolidated (based on all prior work) and systemic (relating to the phenomenon in its entire scope) definition of the sharing economy. The definition is based on the detailed analysis of definitions and explanations in 152 sources identified in a systematic literature review. We identify 36 original understandings of the term ""sharing economy."" Using semantic integration strategies, we consolidate 84 semantic facets in these definitions into 18 characteristics of the sharing economy. Resolving conflicts in the meaning and scope of these characteristics, we arrive at a consolidated, systemic definition. We evaluate the definition's appropriateness and applicability by applying it to cases claimed by the media to be examples of the sharing economy. This article's definition is useful for future research and discourse on the sharing economy."
124	That looks like me or something i can do: Affordances and constraints in the online identity work of US LGBTQ plus millennials	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article examines how search engines and social-networking sites enable and constrain the identity-related information practices of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) millennials in the United States. I employ affordances as a process concept to understand the recursive relationship between individuals and technologies and envision information practices as an outcome of this relationship. Guided by this conceptual framework, I conducted 30 semistructured interviews with LGBTQ+ individuals between the ages of 18 and 38. Data analysis identified 3 key affordances that enable and constrain participants' information practices: visibility, anonymity, and association. The findings indicate that participants are highly skilled in appropriating technological features to engage in desired information practices, such as seeking and creating. However, they also must contend with significant sociocultural barriers encoded into these features, which reinforce hetero- and cisnormative identity discourses. Library practitioners and systems designers can use these findings to offer services and systems inclusive of LGBTQ+ populations."
125	The Things We Talk About When We Talk About Browsing: An Empirical Typology of Library Browsing Behavior	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Libraries increasingly offer much of their collection online, rendering it invisible or unavailable to readers who, for reasons of information experience, prefer to browse the shelves. Although the evidence that shelf browsing is an important part of information behavior is increasing, information browsing as a behavior is somewhat of a black box (in contrast to web browsing, which is relatively well understood). It seems likely from early work that browsing is not, in fact, a monolithic behavior, but rather a set of behaviors and goals. The typologies presented in these works, however, are of a too high level to offer much insight into what support is needed for successful online browsing. In contrast, a recent spate of speculative browsing technologies meet some browsing needs, but offer little theoretical understanding of how systems support browsing. The major contribution of this article is a new typology of library browsing behavior based on recent observations of browsing behavior in libraries. The secondary contribution is an understanding of the interface features that would support these types of information browsers in an online environment."
126	Female Citation Impact Superiority 1996-2018 in Six Out of Seven English-Speaking Nations	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Efforts to combat continuing gender inequalities in academia need to be informed by evidence about where differences occur. Citations are relevant as potential evidence in appointment and promotion decisions, but it is unclear whether there have been historical gender differences in average citation impact that might explain the current shortfall of senior female academics. This study investigates the evolution of gender differences in citation impact 1996-2018 for six million articles from seven large English-speaking nations: Australia, Canada, Ireland, Jamaica, New Zealand, UK, and the USA. The results show that a small female citation advantage has been the norm over time for all these countries except the USA, where there has been no practical difference. The female citation advantage is largest, and statistically significant in most years, for Australia and the UK. This suggests that any academic bias against citing female-authored research cannot explain current employment inequalities. Nevertheless, comparisons using recent citation data, or avoiding it altogether, during appointments or promotion may disadvantage females in some countries by underestimating the likely greater impact of their work, especially in the long term."
127	Academic Collaboration Rates and Citation Associations Vary Substantially Between Countries and Fields	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Research collaboration is promoted by governments and research funders, but if the relative prevalence and merits of collaboration vary internationally then different national and disciplinary strategies may be needed to promote it. This study compares the team size and field normalized citation impact of research across all 27 Scopus broad fields in the 10 countries with the most journal articles indexed in Scopus 2008-2012. The results show that team size varies substantially by discipline and country, with Japan (4.2) having two-thirds more authors per article than the United Kingdom (2.5). Solo authorship is rare in China (4%) but common in the United Kingdom (27%). While increasing team size associates with higher citation impact in almost all countries and fields, this association is much weaker in China than elsewhere. There are also field differences in the association between citation impact and collaboration. For example, larger team sizes in the Business, Management & Accounting category do not seem to associate with greater research impact, and for China and India, solo authorship associates with higher citation impact in this field. Overall, there are substantial international and field differences in the extent to which researchers collaborate and the extent to which collaboration associates with higher citation impact."
128	Uncovering social semantics from textual traces: A theory-driven approach and evidence from public statements of US Members of Congress	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The increasing abundance of digital textual archives provides an opportunity for understanding human social systems. Yet the literature has not adequately considered the disparate social processes by which texts are produced. Drawing on communication theory, we identify three common processes by which documents might be detectably similar in their textual featuresauthors sharing subject matter, sharing goals, and sharing sources. We hypothesize that these processes produce distinct, detectable relationships between authors in different kinds of textual overlap. We develop a novel n-gram extraction technique to capture such signatures based on n-grams of different lengths. We test the hypothesis on a corpus where the author attributes are observable: the public statements of the members of the U.S. Congress. This article presents the first empirical finding that shows different social relationships are detectable through the structure of overlapping textual features. Our study has important implications for designing text modeling techniques to make sense of social phenomena from aggregate digital traces."
129	A machine-learning approach to negation and speculation detection for sentiment analysis	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Recognizing negative and speculative information is highly relevant for sentiment analysis. This paper presents a machine-learning approach to automatically detect this kind of information in the review domain. The resulting system works in two steps: in the first pass, negation/speculation cues are identified, and in the second phase the full scope of these cues is determined. The system is trained and evaluated on the Simon Fraser University Review corpus, which is extensively used in opinion mining. The results show how the proposed method outstrips the baseline by as much as roughly 20% in the negation cue detection and around 13% in the scope recognition, both in terms of F-1. In speculation, the performance obtained in the cue prediction phase is close to that obtained by a human rater carrying out the same task. In the scope detection, the results are also promising and represent a substantial improvement on the baseline (up by roughly 10%). A detailed error analysis is also provided. The extrinsic evaluation shows that the correct identification of cues and scopes is vital for the task of sentiment analysis."
130	"Isolated, Overwhelmed, and Worried: Young First-Time Mothers Asking for Information and Support Online"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study investigates the emotional content of 174 posts from 162 posters to online forums made by young (age 14-21) first-time mothers to understand what emotions are expressed in these posts and how these emotions interact with the types of posts and the indicators of Information Poverty within the posts. Using textual analyses we provide a classification of emotions within posts across three main themes of interaction emotions, response emotions, and preoccupation emotions and show that many requests for information by young first-time mothers are motivated by negative emotions. This has implications for how moderators of online news groups respond to online request for help and for understanding how to support vulnerable young parents."
131	Categorical Relevance Judgment	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In this study we aim to explore users' behavior when assessing search results relevance based on the hypothesis of categorical thinking. To investigate how users categories search engine results, we perform several experiments where users are asked to group a list of 20 search results into several categories, while attaching a relevance judgment to each formed category. Moreover, to determine how users change their minds over time, each experiment was repeated three times under the same conditions, with a gap of one month between rounds. The results show that on average users form 4-5 categories. Within each round the size of a category decreases with the relevance of a category. To measure the agreement between the search engine's ranking and the users' relevance judgments, we defined two novel similarity measures, the average concordance and the MinMax swap ratio. Similarity is shown to be the highest for the third round as the users' opinion stabilizes. Qualitative analysis uncovered some interesting points that users tended to categories results by type and reliability of their source, and particularly, found commercial sites less trustworthy, and attached high relevance to Wikipedia when their prior domain knowledge was limited."
132	How Important Is Scientific Software in Bioinformatics Research? A Comparative Study Between International and Chinese Research Communities	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Software programs are among the most important tools in data-driven research. The popularity of well-known packages and corresponding large numbers of citations received bear testimony of the contribution of scientific software to academic research. Yet software is not generally recognized as an academic outcome. In this study, a usage-based model is proposed with varied indicators including citations, mentions, and downloads to measure the importance of scientific software. We performed an investigation on a sample of international bioinformatics research articles, and on a sample from the Chinese community. Our analysis shows that scientists in the field of bioinformatics rely heavily on scientific software: the major differences between the international community and the Chinese example being how scientific packages are mentioned in publications and the time gap between the introduction of a package and its use. Biologists publishing in international journals tend to apply the latest tools earlier; Chinese scientists publishing in Chinese tend to follow later. Further, journals with higher impact factors tend to publish articles applying the latest tools earlier."
133	Identifying Bacterial Biotope Entities Using Sequence Labeling: Performance and Feature Analysis	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Habitat information is important to biodiversity conservation and research. Extracting bacterial biotope entities from scientific publications is important to large scale study of the relationships between bacteria and their living environments. To facilitate the further development of robust habitat text mining systems for biodiversity, following the BioNLP task framework, three sequence labeling techniques, CRFs (Conditional Random Fields), MEMM (Maximum Entropy Markov Model) and SVMhmm (Support Vector Machine) and one classifier, SVMmulticlass, are compared on their performance in identifying three types of bacterial biotope entities: bacteria, habitats and geographical locations. The effectiveness of a variety of basic word formation features, syntactic features, and semantic features are exploited and compared for the three sequence labeling methods. Experiments on two publicly available BioNLP collections show that, in addition to a Word Net feature, word embedding featured clusters (although not trained with the task-specific corpus) consistently improve the performance for all methods on all entity types in both collections. Other features produce various results. Our results also show that when trained on limited corpora. Brown clusters resulted in better performance than word embedding clusters did. Further analysis suggests that the entity recognition performance can be greatly boosted through improving the accuracy of entity boundary identification."
134	"Modeling Citation Dynamics of ""Atypical"" Articles"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Modeling and predicting citation dynamics of individual articles is important due to its critical role in a wide range of decisions in science. While the current modeling framework successfully captures citation dynamics of typical articles, there exists a nonnegligible, and perhaps most interesting, fraction of atypical articles whose citation trajectories do not follow the normal rise-and-fall pattern. Here we systematically study and classify citation patterns of atypical articles, finding that they can be characterized by awakened articles, second-acts, and a combination of both. We propose a second-act model that can accurately describe the citation dynamics of second-act articles. The model not only provides a mechanistic framework to understand citation patterns of atypical articles, separating factors that drive impact, but it also offers new capabilities to identify the time of exogenous events that influence citations."
135	Exploring Possibilities to Use Bibliometric Data to Monitor Gold Open Access Publishing at the National Level	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article(1) describes the possibilities to analyze open access (OA) publishing in the Netherlands in an international comparative way. OA publishing is now actively stimulated by Dutch science policy, similar to the United Kingdom. We conducted a bibliometric baseline measurement to assess the current situation, to be able to measure developments over time. We collected data from various sources, and for three different smaller European countries (the Netherlands, Denmark, and Switzerland). Not all of the analyses for this baseline measurement are included here. The analysis presented in this article focuses on the various ways OA can be defined using the Web of Science, limiting the analysis mainly to Gold OA. From the data we collected we can conclude that the way OA is currently registered in various electronic bibliographic databases is quite unclear, and various methods applied deliver results that are different, although the impact scores derived from the data point in the same direction."
136	"Aggregated journal-journal citation relations in scopus and web of science matched and compared in terms of networks, maps, and interactive overlays"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We compare the network of aggregated journal-journal citation relations provided by the Journal Citation Reports (JCR) 2012 of the Science Citation Index (SCI) and Social Sciences Citation Index (SSCI) with similar data based on Scopus 2012. First, global and overlay maps were developed for the 2 sets separately. Using fuzzy-string matching and ISSN numbers, we were able to match 10,524 journal names between the 2 sets: 96.4% of the 10,936 journals contained in JCR, or 51.2% of the 20,554 journals covered by Scopus. Network analysis was pursued on the set of journals shared between the 2 databases and the 2 sets of unique journals. Citations among the shared journals are more comprehensively covered in JCR than in Scopus, so the network in JCR is denser and more connected than in Scopus. The ranking of shared journals in terms of indegree (i.e., numbers of citing journals) or total citations is similar in both databases overall (Spearman rank correlation >0.97), but some individual journals rank very differently. Journals that are unique to Scopus seem to be less importantthey are citing shared journals rather than being cited by thembut the humanities are covered better in Scopus than in JCR."
137	Nobel numbers: Time-dependent centrality measures on coauthorship graphs	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"A time-dependent centrality metric for disciplinary coauthorship graphs, the Nobel number for a discipline, is introduced. A researcher's Nobel number for a given discipline in a given year is defined as the researcher's average coauthorship distance to that discipline's Nobel laureates in that year. Plotting Nobel numbers over several decades provides a quantitative as well as visual indication of a researcher's proximity to the intuitive center of a discipline as defined by recognized scientific achievement. It is shown that the Nobel number distributions for physics of several researchers both within and outside of physics are surprisingly flat over the five-decade span from 1951 to 2000. A model in which Nobel laureates are typically connected by short coauthorship paths both intergenerationally and between subdisciplines reproduces such flat Nobel number distributions."
138	Disciplinary knowledge production and diffusion in science	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study examines patterns of dynamic disciplinary knowledge production and diffusion. It uses a citation data set of Scopus-indexed journals and proceedings. The journal-level citation data set is aggregated into 27 subject areas and these subjects are selected as the unit of analysis. A 3-step approach is employed: the first step examines disciplines' citation characteristics through scientific trading dimensions; the second step analyzes citation flows between pairs of disciplines; and the third step uses egocentric citation networks to assess individual disciplines' citation flow diversity through Shannon entropy. The results show that measured by scientific impact, the subjects of Chemical Engineering, Energy, and Environmental Science have the fastest growth. Furthermore, most subjects are carrying out more diversified knowledge trading practices by importing higher volumes of knowledge from a greater number of subjects. The study also finds that the growth rates of disciplinary citations align with the growth rates of global research and development (R&D) expenditures, thus providing evidence to support the impact of R&D expenditures on knowledge production."
139	Modeling journal bibliometrics to predict downloads and inform purchase decisions at university research libraries	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"University libraries provide access to thousands of online journals and other content, spending millions of dollars annually on these electronic resources. Providing access to these online resources is costly, and it is difficult both to analyze the value of this content to the institution and to discern those journals that comparatively provide more value. In this research, we examine 1,510 journals from a large research university library, representing more than 40% of the university's annual subscription cost for electronic resources at the time of the study. We utilize a web analytics approach for the creation of a linear regression model to predict usage among these journals. We categorize metrics into two classes: global (journal focused) and local (institution dependent). Using 275 journals for our training set, our analysis shows that a combination of global and local metrics creates the strongest model for predicting full-text downloads. Our linear regression model has an accuracy of more than 80% in predicting downloads for the 1,235 journals in our test set. The implications of the findings are that university libraries that use local metrics have better insight into the value of a journal and therefore more efficient cost content management."
140	"Business process costs of implementing ""gold"" and ""green"" open access in institutional and national contexts"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"As open access (OA) publication of research outputs becomes increasingly common and is mandated by institutions and research funders, it is important to understand different aspects of the costs involved. This paper provides an early review of administrative costs incurred by universities in making research outputs OA, either via publication in journals (Gold OA), involving payment of article-processing charges (APCs), or via deposit in repositories (Green OA). Using data from 29 UK institutions, it finds that the administrative time, as well as the cost incurred by universities, to make an article OA using the Gold route is over 2.5 times higher than Green. Costs are then modeled at a national level using recent UK policy initiatives from Research Councils UK and the Higher Education Funding Councils' Research Excellence Framework as case studies. The study also demonstrates that the costs of complying with research funders' OA policies are considerably higher than where an OA publication is left entirely to authors' discretion. Key target areas for future efficiencies in the business processes are identified and potential cost savings calculated. The analysis is designed to inform ongoing policy development at the institutional and national levels."
141	"Sharing ""happy"" information"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study focuses on the sharing of ""happy"" information: information that creates a sense of happiness within the individual sharing the information. We explore the range of factors motivating and impacting individuals' happy information-sharing behavior within a casual leisure context through 30 semistructured interviews. The findings reveal that the factors influencing individuals' happy information-sharing behavior are numerous, and impact each other. Most individuals considered sharing happy information important to their friendships and relationships. In various contexts the act of sharing happy information was shown to enhance the sharer's happiness."
142	How to Improve the Sustainability of Digital Libraries and Information Services?	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Arguing that environmental sustainability is a growing concern for digital information systems and services, this article proposes a simple method for estimation of the energy and environmental costs of digital libraries and information services. It is shown that several factors contribute to the overall energy and environmental costs of information and communication technology (ICT) in general and digital information systems and services in particular. It is also shown that end-user energy costs play a key role in the overall environmental costs of a digital library or information service. It is argued that appropriate user research, transaction log analysis, user modeling, and better design and delivery of services can significantly reduce the user interaction time, and thus the environmental costs, of digital information systems and services, making them more sustainable."
143	"Sentence Simplification, Compression, and Disaggregation for Summarization of Sophisticated Documents"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Sophisticated documents like legal cases and biomedical articles can contain unusually long sentences. Extractive summarizers can select such sentencespotentially adding hundreds of unnecessary words to the summaryor exclude them and lose important content. Sentence simplification or compression seems on the surface to be a promising solution. However, compression removes words before the selection algorithm can use them, and simplification generates sentences that may be ambiguous in an extractive summary. We therefore compare the performance of an extractive summarizer selecting from the sentences of the original document with that of the summarizer selecting from sentences shortened in three ways: simplification, compression, and disaggregation, which splits one sentence into several according to rules designed to keep all meaning. We find that on legal cases and biomedical articles, these shortening methods generate ungrammatical output. Human evaluators performed an extrinsic evaluation consisting of comprehension questions about the summaries. Evaluators given compressed, simplified, or disaggregated versions of the summaries answered fewer questions correctly than did those given summaries with unaltered sentences. Error analysis suggests 2 causes: Altered sentences sometimes interact with the sentence selection algorithm, and alterations to sentences sometimes obscure information in the summary. We discuss future work to alleviate these problems."
144	Map of Science with Topic Modeling: Comparison of Unsupervised Learning and Human-Assigned Subject Classification	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The delineation of coordinates is fundamental for the cartography of science, and accurate and credible classification of scientific knowledge presents a persistent challenge in this regard. We present a map of Finnish science based on unsupervised-learning classification, and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of this approach vis-a-vis those generated by human reasoning. We conclude that from theoretical and practical perspectives there exist several challenges for human reasoning-based classification frameworks of scientific knowledge, as they typically try to fit new-to-the-world knowledge into historical models of scientific knowledge, and cannot easily be deployed for new large-scale data sets. Automated classification schemes, in contrast, generate classification models only from the available text corpus, thereby identifying credibly novel bodies of knowledge. They also lend themselves to versatile large-scale data analysis, and enable a range of Big Data possibilities. However, we also argue that it is neither possible nor fruitful to declare one or another method a superior approach in terms of realism to classify scientific knowledge, and we believe that the merits of each approach are dependent on the practical objectives of analysis."
145	Visualizing the World's Scientific Publications	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Automated methods for the analysis, modeling, and visualization of large-scale scientometric data provide measures that enable the depiction of the state of world scientific development. We aimed to integrate minimum span clustering (MSC) and minimum spanning tree methods to cluster and visualize the global pattern of scientific publications (PSP) by analyzing aggregated Science Citation Index (SCI) data from 1994 to 2011. We hypothesized that PSP clustering is mainly affected by countries' geographic location, ethnicity, and level of economic development, as indicated in previous studies. Our results showed that the 100 countries with the highest rates of publications were decomposed into 12 PSP groups and that countries within a group tended to be geographically proximal, ethnically similar, or comparable in terms of economic status. Hubs and bridging nodes in each knowledge production group were identified. The performance of each group was evaluated across 16 knowledge domains based on their specialization, volume of publications, and relative impact. Awareness of the strengths and weaknesses of each group in various knowledge domains may have useful applications for examining scientific policies, adjusting the allocation of resources, and promoting international collaboration for future developments."
146	Comparing and Combining Content- and Citation-Based Approaches for Plagiarism Detection	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The vast amount of scientific publications available online makes it easier for students and researchers to reuse text from other authors and makes it harder for checking the originality of a given text. Reusing text without crediting the original authors is considered plagiarism. A number of studies have reported the prevalence of plagiarism in academia. As a consequence, numerous institutions and researchers are dedicated to devising systems to automate the process of checking for plagiarism. This work focuses on the problem of detecting text reuse in scientific papers. The contributions of this paper are twofold: (a) we survey the existing approaches for plagiarism detection based on content, based on content and structure, and based on citations and references; and (b) we compare content and citation-based approaches with the goal of evaluating whether they are complementary and if their combination can improve the quality of the detection. We carry out experiments with real data sets of scientific papers and concluded that a combination of the methods can be beneficial."
147	Robustness of Journal Rankings by Network Flows With Different Amounts of Memory	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"As the number of scientific journals has multiplied, journal rankings have become increasingly important for scientific decisions. From submissions and subscriptions to grants and hirings, researchers, policy makers, and funding agencies make important decisions influenced by journal rankings such as the ISI journal impact factor. Typically, the rankings are derived from the citation network between a selection of journals and unavoidably depend on this selection. However, little is known about how robust rankings are to the selection of included journals. We compare the robustness of three journal rankings based on network flows induced on citation networks. They model pathways of researchers navigating the scholarly literature, stepping between journals and remembering their previous steps to different degrees: zero-step memory as impact factor, one-step memory as Eigenfactor, and two-step memory, corresponding to zero-, first-, and second-order Markov models of citation flow between journals. We conclude that higher-order Markov models perform better and are more robust to the selection of journals. Whereas our analysis indicates that higher-order models perform better, the performance gain for higher-order Markov models comes at the cost of requiring more citation data over a longer time period."
148	Evaluation of the Citation Matching Algorithms of CWTS and iFQ in Comparison to the Web of Science	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The results of bibliometric studies provided by bibliometric research groups, for example, the Centre for Science and Technology Studies (CWTS) and the Institute for Research Information and Quality Assurance (iFQ), are often used in the process of research assessment. Their databases use Web of Science (WoS) citation data, which they match according to their own matching algorithmsin the case of CWTS for standard usage in their studies and in the case of iFQ on an experimental basis. Because the problem of nonmatched citations in the WoS persists due to inaccuracies in the references or inaccuracies introduced in the data extraction process, it is important to ascertain how well these inaccuracies are rectified in these citation matching algorithms. This article evaluates the algorithms of CWTS and iFQ in comparison to the WoS in a quantitative and a qualitative analysis. The analysis builds upon the method and the manually verified corpus of a previous study. The algorithm of CWTS performs best, closely followed by that of iFQ. The WoS algorithm still performs quite well (F-1 score: 96.41%), but shows deficits in matching references containing inaccuracies. An additional problem is posed by incorrectly provided cited reference information in source articles by the WoS."
149	A Matter of Trust: Higher Education Institutions as Information Fiduciaries in an Age of Educational Data Mining and Learning Analytics	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Higher education institutions are mining and analyzing student data to effect educational, political, and managerial outcomes. Done under the banner of ""learning analytics,"" this work can-and often does-surface sensitive data and information about, inter alia, a student's demographics, academic performance, offline and online movements, physical fitness, mental wellbeing, and social network. With these data, institutions and third parties are able to describe student life, predict future behaviors, and intervene to address academic or other barriers to student success (however defined). Learning analytics, consequently, raise serious issues concerning student privacy, autonomy, and the appropriate flow of student data. We argue that issues around privacy lead to valid questions about the degree to which students should trust their institution to use learning analytics data and other artifacts (algorithms, predictive scores) with their interests in mind. We argue that higher education institutions are paradigms of information fiduciaries. As such, colleges and universities have a special responsibility to their students. In this article, we use the information fiduciary concept to analyze cases when learning analytics violate an institution's responsibility to its students."
150	The Citation Advantage of Promoted Articles in a Cross-Publisher Distribution Platform: A 12-Month Randomized Controlled Trial	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"There is currently a paucity of evidence-based strategies that have been shown to increase citations of peer-reviewed articles following their publication. We conducted a 12-month randomized controlled trial to examine whether the promotion of article links in an online cross-publisher distribution platform (TrendMD) affects citations. In all, 3,200 articles published in 64 peer-reviewed journals across eight subject areas were block randomized at the subject level to either the TrendMD group (n = 1,600) or the control group (n = 1,600) of the study. Our primary outcome compares the mean citations of articles randomized to TrendMD versus control after 12 months. Articles randomized to TrendMD showed a 50% increase in mean citations relative to control at 12 months. The difference in mean citations at 12 months for articles randomized to TrendMD versus control was 5.06, 95% confidence interval [2.87, 7.25], was statistically significant (p < .001) and found in three of eight subject areas. At 6 months following publication, articles randomized to TrendMD showed a smaller, yet statistically significant (p = .005), 21% increase in mean citations, relative to control. To our knowledge, this is the first randomized controlled trial to demonstrate how an intervention can be used to increase citations of peer-reviewed articles after they have been published."
151	If these crawls could talk: Studying and documenting web archives provenance	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The increasing use and prominence of web archives raises the urgency of establishing mechanisms for transparency in the making of web archives to facilitate the process of evaluating a web archive's provenance, scoping, and absences. Some choices and process events are captured automatically, but their interactions are not currently well understood or documented. This study examined the decision space of web archives and its role in shaping what is and what is not captured in the web archiving process. By comparing how three different web archives collections were created and documented, we investigate how curatorial decisions interact with technical and external factors and we compare commonalities and differences. The findings reveal the need to understand both the social and technical context that shapes those decisions and the ways in which these individual decisions interact. Based on the study, we propose a framework for documenting key dimensions of a collection that addresses the situated nature of the organizational context, technical specificities, and unique characteristics of web materials that are the focus of a collection. The framework enables future researchers to undertake empirical work studying the process of creating web archives collections in different contexts."
152	Documenting provenance in noncomputational workflows: Research process models based on geobiology fieldwork in Yellowstone National Park	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"A comprehensive record of research data provenance is essential for the successful curation, management, and reuse of data over time. However, creating such detailed metadata can be onerous, and there are few structured methods for doing so. In this case study of data curation in support of geobiology research conducted at Yellowstone National Park, we describe a method of Research Process Modeling for documenting noncomputational data provenance in a structured yet flexible way. The method combines systems analysis techniques to model research activities, the World Wide Web Consortium Provenance (PROV) ontology to illustrate relationships between data products, and simple inventory methods to account for research processes and data products. It also supports collaborative data curation between information professionals and researchers, and is therefore a significant step toward producing more useable and interpretable research data. We demonstrate how this method describes data provenance more robustly than flat metadata alone and fills a critical gap in the documentation of provenance for field-based and noncomputational workflows. We discuss potential applications of this approach to other research domains."
153	A session-specific opportunity cost model for rank-oriented recommendation	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Recommender systems are changing the way that people find information, products, and even other people. This paper studies the problem of leveraging the context of the items presented to the user in a user/system interaction session to improve the recommender system's ranking prediction. We propose a novel model that incorporates the opportunity cost of giving up the other items in the session and computes session-specific relevance values for items for context-aware recommendation. The model can work on a variety of different problems settings with emphasis on implicit user feedback as it supports varying levels of ordinal relevance. Experimental evaluation demonstrates the advantages of our new model with respect to the ranking quality."
154	Data objects and documenting scientific processes: An analysis of data events in biodiversity data papers	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The data paper, an emerging scholarly genre, describes research data sets and is intended to bridge the gap between the publication of research data and scientific articles. Research examining how data papers report data events, such as data transactions and manipulations, is limited. The research reported on in this article addresses this limitation and investigated how data events are inscribed in data papers. A content analysis was conducted examining the full texts of 82 data papers, drawn from the curated list of data papers connected to the Global Biodiversity Information Facility. Data events recorded for each paper were organized into a set of 17 categories. Many of these categories are described together in the same sentence, which indicates the messiness of data events in the laboratory space. The findings challenge the degrees to which data papers are a distinct genre compared to research articles and they describe data-centric research processes in a through way. This article also discusses how our results could inform a better data publication ecosystem in the future."
155	Modeling the online health information seeking process: Information channel selection among university students	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study investigates the influence of individual and information characteristics on university students' information channel selection (that is, search engines, social question & answer sites, online health websites, and social networking sites) of online health information (OHI) for three different types of search tasks (factual, exploratory, and personal experience). Quantitative data were collected via an online questionnaire distributed to students on various postgraduate programs at a large UK university. In total, 291 responses were processed for descriptive statistics, Principal Component Analysis, and Poisson regression. Search engines are the most frequently used among the four channels of information discussed in this study. Credibility, ease of use, style, usefulness, and recommendation are the key factors influencing users' judgments of information characteristics (explaining over 62% of the variance). Poisson regression indicated that individuals' channel experience, age, student status, health status, and triangulation (comparing sources) as well as style, credibility, usefulness, and recommendation are substantive predictors for channel selection of OHI."
156	Historical reasoning in authentic research tasks: Mapping cognitive and document spaces	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"To support historians in their work, we need to understand their work-related needs and propose what is required to support those needs. Although the quantity of digitized historical documents available is increasing, historians' ways of working with the digital documents have not been widely studied, particularly in authentic work settings. To better support the historians' reasoning processes, we investigate history researchers' work tasks as the context of information interaction and examine their cognitive access points into information. The analysis is based on a longitudinal observational research and interviews in a task-based research setting. Based on these findings in the historians' cognitive space, we build bridges into the document space. By studying the information interactions in real task contexts, we facilitate the provision of task-specific handles into documents that can be used in designing digital research tools for historians."
157	Chatting Through Pictures? A Classification of Images Tweeted in One Week in the UK and USA	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Twitter is used by a substantial minority of the populations of many countries to share short messages, sometimes including images. Nevertheless, despite some research into specific images, such as selfies, and a few news stories about specific tweeted photographs, little is known about the types of images that are routinely shared. In response, this article reports a content analysis of random samples of 800 images tweeted from the UK or USA during a week at the end of 2014. Although most images were photographs, a substantial minority were hybrid or layered image forms: phone screenshots, collages, captioned pictures, and pictures of text messages. About half were primarily of one or more people, including 10% that were selfies, but a wide variety of other things were also pictured. Some of the images were for advertising or to share a joke but in most cases the purpose of the tweet seemed to be to share the minutiae of daily lives, performing the function of chat or gossip, sometimes in innovative ways."
158	The Effect of Personalization Provider Characteristics on Privacy Attitudes and Behaviors: An Elaboration Likelihood Model Approach	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Many computer users today value personalization but perceive it in conflict with their desire for privacy. They therefore tend not to disclose data that would be useful for personalization. We investigate how characteristics of the personalization provider influence users' attitudes towards personalization and their resulting disclosure behavior. We propose an integrative model that links these characteristics via privacy attitudes to actual disclosure behavior. Using the Elaboration Likelihood Model, we discuss in what way the influence of the manipulated provider characteristics is different for users engaging in different levels of elaboration (represented by the user characteristics of privacy concerns and self-efficacy). We find particularly that (a) reputation management is effective when users predominantly use the peripheral route (i.e., a low level of elaboration), but much less so when they predominantly use the central route (i.e., a high level of elaboration); (b) client-side personalization has a positive impact when users use either route; and (c) personalization in the cloud does not work well in either route. Managers and designers can use our results to instill more favorable privacy attitudes and increase disclosure, using different techniques that depend on each user's levels of privacy concerns and privacy self-efficacy."
159	Assessing Geographic Relevance for Mobile Search: A Computational Model and Its Validation via Crowdsourcing	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The selection and retrieval of relevant information from the information universe on the web is becoming increasingly important in addressing information overload. It has also been recognized that geography is an important criterion of relevance, leading to the research area of geographic information retrieval. As users increasingly retrieve information in mobile situations, relevance is often related to geographic features in the real world as well as their representation in web documents. We present 2 methods for assessing geographic relevance (GR) of geographic entities in a mobile use context that include the 5 criteria topicality, spatiotem-poral proximity, directionality, cluster, and colocation. To determine the effectiveness and validity of these methods, we evaluate them through a user study conducted on the Amazon Mechanical Turk crowdsourcing platform. An analysis of relevance ranks for geographic entities in 3 scenarios produced by two GR methods, 2 baseline methods, and human judgments collected in the experiment reveal that one of the GR methods produces similar ranks as human assessors."
160	Is Exploratory Search Different? A Comparison of Information Search Behavior for Exploratory and Lookup Tasks	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Exploratory search is an increasingly important activity yet challenging for users. Although there exists an ample amount of research into understanding exploration, most of the major information retrieval (IR) systems do not provide tailored and adaptive support for such tasks. One reason is the lack of empirical knowledge on how to distinguish exploratory and lookup search behaviors in IR systems. The goal of this article is to investigate how to separate the 2 types of tasks in an IR system using easily measurable behaviors. In this article, we first review characteristics of exploratory search behavior. We then report on a controlled study of 6 search tasks with 3 exploratory-comparison, knowledge acquisition, planning-and 3 lookup tasks-fact-finding, navigational, question answering. The results are encouraging, showing that IR systems can distinguish the 2 search categories in the course of a search session. The most distinctive indicators that characterize exploratory search behaviors are query length, maximum scroll depth, and task completion time. However, 2 tasks are borderline and exhibit mixed characteristics. We assess the applicability of this finding by reporting on several classification experiments. Our results have valuable implications for designing tailored and adaptive IR systems."
161	"Automated Arabic Text Classification With P-Stemmer, Machine Learning, and a Tailored News Article Taxonomy"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Arabic news articles in electronic collections are difficult to study. Browsing by category is rarely supported. Although helpful machine-learning methods have been applied successfully to similar situations for English news articles, limited research has been completed to yield suitable solutions for Arabic news. In connection with a Qatar National Research Fund (QNRF)-funded project to build digital library community and infrastructure in Qatar, we developed software for browsing a collection of about 237,000 Arabic news articles, which should be applicable to other Arabic news collections. We designed a simple taxonomy for Arabic news stories that is suitable for the needs of Qatar and other nations, is compatible with the subject codes of the International Press Telecommunications Council, and was enhanced with the aid of a librarian expert as well as five Arabic-speaking volunteers. We developed tailored stemming (i.e., a new Arabic light stemmer called P-Stemmer) and automatic classification methods (the best being binary Support Vector Machines classifiers) to work with the taxonomy. Using evaluation techniques commonly used in the information retrieval community, including 10-fold cross-validation and the Wilcoxon signed-rank test, we showed that our approach to stemming and classification is superior to state-of-the-art techniques."
162	Form-ing institutional order: The scaffolding of lists and identifiers	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This paper examines the central place of the list and the associated concept of an identifier within the scaffolding of contemporary institutional order. These terms are deliberately chosen to make strange and help unpack the constitutive capacity of information systems and information technology within and between contemporary organizations. We draw upon the substantial body of work by John Searle to help understand the place of lists and identifiers in the constitution of institutional order. To enable us to ground our discussion of the potentiality and problematic associated with lists we describe a number of significant instances of list-making, situated particularly around the use of identifiers to refer to people, places, and products. The theorization developed allows us to better explain not only the significance imbued within lists and identifiers but the key part they play in form-ing the institutional order. We also hint at the role such symbolic artifacts play within breakdowns in institutional order."
163	University citation distributions	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We investigate the citation distributions of the 500 universities in the 2013 edition of the Leiden Ranking produced by The Centre for Science and Technological Studies. We use a Web of Science data set consisting of 3.6 million articles published in 2003 to 2008 and classified into 5,119 clusters. The main findings are the following. First, the universality claim, according to which all university-citation distributions, appropriately normalized, follow a single functional form, is not supported by the data. Second, the 500 university citation distributions are all highly skewed and very similar. Broadly speaking, university citation distributions appear to behave as if they differ by a relatively constant scale factor over a large, intermediate part of their support. Third, citation-impact differences between universities account for 3.85% of overall citation inequality. This percentage is greatly reduced when university citation distributions are normalized using their mean normalized citation scores (MNCSs) as normalization factors. Finally, regarding practical consequences, we only need a single explanatory model for the type of high skewness characterizing all university citation distributions, and the similarity of university citation distributions goes a long way in explaining the similarity of the university rankings obtained with the MNCS and the Top 10% indicator."
164	The normalization of occurrence and Co-occurrence matrices in bibliometrics using Cosine similarities and Ochiai coefficients	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We prove that Ochiai similarity of the co-occurrence matrix is equal to cosine similarity in the underlying occurrence matrix. Neither the cosine nor the Pearson correlation should be used for the normalization of co-occurrence matrices because the similarity is then normalized twice, and therefore overestimated; the Ochiai coefficient can be used instead. Results are shown using a small matrix (5 cases, 4 variables) for didactic reasons, and also Ahlgren etal.'s (2003) co-occurrence matrix of 24 authors in library and information sciences. The overestimation is shown numerically and will be illustrated using multidimensional scaling and cluster dendograms. If the occurrence matrix is not available (such as in internet research or author cocitation analysis) using Ochiai for the normalization is preferable to using the cosine."
165	Estimating open access mandate effectiveness: The MELIBEA score	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"MELIBEA is a directory of institutional open-access policies for research output that uses a composite formula with eight weighted conditions to estimate the strength of open access (OA) mandates (registered in ROARMAP). We analyzed total Web of Science-(WoS)-indexed publication output in years 2011-2013 for 67 institutions in which OA was mandated to estimate the mandates' effectiveness: How well did the MELIBEA score and its individual conditions predict what percentage of the WoS-indexed articles is actually deposited in each institution's OA repository, and when? We found a small but significant positive correlation (0.18) between the MELIBEA strength score and deposit percentage. For three of the eight MELIBEA conditions (deposit timing, internal use, and opt-outs), one value of each was strongly associated with deposit percentage or latency ([a] immediate deposit required; [b] deposit required for performance evaluation; [c] unconditional opt-out allowed for the OA requirement but no opt-out for deposit requirement). When we updated the initial values and weights of the MELIBEA formula to reflect the empirical association we had found, the score's predictive power for mandate effectiveness doubled (0.36). There are not yet enough OA mandates to test further mandate conditions that might contribute to mandate effectiveness, but the present findings already suggest that it would be productive for existing and future mandates to adopt the three identified conditions so as to maximize their effectiveness, and thereby the growth of OA."
166	Female Librarians and Male Computer Programmers? Gender Bias in Occupational Images on Digital Media Platforms	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Media platforms, technological systems, and search engines act as conduits and gatekeepers for all kinds of information. They often influence, reflect, and reinforce gender stereotypes, including those that represent occupations. This study examines the prevalence of gender stereotypes on digital media platforms and considers how human efforts to create and curate messages directly may impact these stereotypes. While gender stereotyping in social media and algorithms has received some examination in the recent literature, its prevalence in different types of platforms (for example, wiki vs. news vs. social network) and under differing conditions (for example, degrees of human- and machine-led content creation and curation) has yet to be studied. This research explores the extent to which stereotypes of certain strongly gendered professions (librarian, nurse, computer programmer, civil engineer) persist and may vary across digital platforms (Twitter, the New York Times online, Wikipedia, and Shutterstock). The results suggest that gender stereotypes are most likely to be challenged when human beings act directly to create and curate content in digital platforms, and that highly algorithmic approaches for curation showed little inclination towards breaking stereotypes. Implications for the more inclusive design and use of digital media platforms, particularly with regard to mediated occupational messaging, are discussed."
167	Multilingual Publishing in the Social Sciences and Humanities: A Seven-Country European Study	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We investigate the state of multilingualism across the social sciences and humanities (SSH) using a comprehensive data set of research outputs from seven European countries (Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Flanders [Belgium], Norway, Poland, and Slovenia). Although English tends to be the dominant language of science, SSH researchers often produce culturally and societally relevant work in their local languages. We collected and analyzed a set of 164,218 peer-reviewed journal articles (produced by 51,063 researchers from 2013 to 2015) and found that multilingualism is prevalent despite geographical location and field. Among the researchers who published at least three journal articles during this time period, over one-third from the various countries had written their work in at least two languages. The highest share of researchers who published in only one language were from Flanders (80.9%), whereas the lowest shares were from Slovenia (57.2%) and Poland (59.3%). Our findings show that multilingual publishing is an ongoing practice in many SSH research fields regardless of geographical location, political situation, and/or historical heritage. Here we argue that research is international, but multilingual publishing keeps locally relevant research alive with the added potential for creating impact."
168	Recommendations and privacy in the arXiv system: A simulation experiment using historical data	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Recommender systems may accelerate knowledge discovery in many fields. However, their users may be competitors guarding their ideas before publication or for other reasons. We describe a simulation experiment to assess user privacy against targeted attacks, modeling recommendations based on co-access data. The analysis uses an unusually long (14 years) set of anonymized historical data on user-item accesses. We introduce the notions of ""visibility"" and ""discoverability."" We find, based on historical data, that the majority of the actions of arXiv users would be potentially ""visible"" under targeted attack. However, ""discoverability,"" which incorporates the difficulty of actually seeing a ""visible"" effect, is very much lower for nearly all users. We consider the effect of changes to the settings of the recommender algorithm on the visibility and discoverability of user actions and propose mitigation strategies that reduce both measures of risk."
169	"Curation as ""Interoperability With the Future"": Preserving Scholarly Research Software in Academic Libraries"	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article considers the problem of preserving research software within the wider realm of digital curation, academic research libraries, and the scholarly record. We conducted a pilot study to understand the ecosystem in which research software participates, and to identify significant characteristics that have high potential to support future scholarly practices. A set of topical curation dimensions were derived from the extant literature and applied to select cases of institutionally significant research software. This approach yields our main contribution, a curation model and decision framework for preserving research software as a scholarly object. The results of our study highlight the unique characteristics and challenges at play in building curation services in academic research libraries."
170	Perceived quality and self-identity in scholarly publishing	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The purpose of the study was to understand if and how 2 proposed facets of self-identity (work-self and career-self) and journals' perceived quality (impact, visibility, and content quality) influence and explain the intention to publish in open access (OA) or nonopen access (non-OA) journals. This study integrates attitude and identity theory within a cross-sectional survey design. The sample consists of about 1,600 researchers in Norway, and the data were collected via e-mail invitation using a digital surveying tool and analyzed using structural equation modeling techniques. We determined that perceived impact-quality increases the intention to publish non-OA, while decreasing the intention to publish OA. Content quality is only associated with non-OA journals. Perceived visibility increases the intention to publish OA, while the opposite effect is found for non-OA. Career-self salience has the strongest effect on impact-quality, while content quality is most important when work-self is salient. This research contributes to a deeper understanding about how perceived quality influences intention to publish in OA and non-OA journals, and how self-identity salience affects different facets of perceived quality in valence and strength. Findings have implications for policy development, implementation, and assessment and may contribute to improving OA adoption."
171	Towards a new sociological model of fiction reading	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Although much previous research has considered how we read, less attention has been paid to why we read, and the influence not only of individual or text-related factors on a reader's intention to read, but also of broader societal factors. This article presents a novel, empirically-based model of fiction reading in a public library context, taking into account the characteristics differentiating the readers of individual fiction genres. It begins with a literature review of factors motivating a reading choice or habit, and of the effects of reading different fiction genres, before introducing three previous studies by the first author into readers' attitudes towards, and engagement with, fiction and selected fiction genres. The methodologies are then summarized both for the three previous studies and the present study. The authors present a combined analysis that integrates the findings of the previous studies in order to generate a new, evidence-based model for the reading of fiction genres. Incorporating both demographic and motivational aspects, this model illustrates how the broad themes of the fiction reader profile interrelate, giving them a new causal ordering. Finally, there is a discussion of the implications of this work for library and information science research and practitioner communities."
172	The origins of Zipf's meaning-frequency law	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In his pioneering research, G.K. Zipf observed that more frequent words tend to have more meanings, and showed that the number of meanings of a word grows as the square root of its frequency. He derived this relationship from two assumptions: that words follow Zipf's law for word frequencies (a power law dependency between frequency and rank) and Zipf's law of meaning distribution (a power law dependency between number of meanings and rank). Here we show that a single assumption on the joint probability of a word and a meaning suffices to infer Zipf's meaning-frequency law or relaxed versions. Interestingly, this assumption can be justified as the outcome of a biased random walk in the process of mental exploration."
173	Citations in Scientific Texts: Do Social Relations Matter?	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article presents an investigation of the role of social relations in the writing of scientific articles through the study of in-text citations. Does the fact that the author of an article knows the author whose work he or she cites have an impact on the context of the citation? Because citations are commonly used as criteria for research evaluation, it is important to question their social background to better understand how it impacts textual features. We studied a collection of science articles (N = 123) from 5 disciplines and interviewed their authors (N = 84) to: (a) identify the social relations between citing and cited authors; and (b) measure the correlation between a set of features related to in-text citations (N = 6,956) and the identified social relations. Our pioneering work, mixing sociological and linguistic results, shows that social relations between authors can partly explain the variations of citations in terms of frequency, position and textual context."
174	The role of information in health behavior: A scoping study and discussion of major public health models	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Information interventions that influence health behavior are a major element of the public health toolkit and an area of potential interest and investigation for library and information science (LIS) researchers. To explore the use of information as a concept within dominant public health behavior models and the manner in which information practices are handled therein, we undertook a scoping study. We scoped the use of information within core English-language health behavior textbooks and examined dominant models of health behavior for information practices. Index terms within these texts indicated a lack of common language around information-related concepts. Nine models/theories were discussed in a majority of the texts. These were grouped by model type and examined for information-related concepts/constructs. Information was framed as a thing or resource, and information practices were commonly included or implied. However, lack of specificity regarding the definition of information, how it differs from knowledge, and how context affects information practices make the exact role of information within health behavior models unclear. Although health information interventions may be grounded in behavioral theory, a limited understanding of the ways information works within people's lives hinders our ability to effectively use information to improve health. By the same token, information scientists should explore public health's interventionist approach."
175	Enhancing information retrieval through concept-based language modeling and semantic smoothing	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Traditionally, many information retrieval models assume that terms occur in documents independently. Although these models have already shown good performance, the word independency assumption seems to be unrealistic from a natural language point of view, which considers that terms are related to each other. Therefore, such an assumption leads to two well-known problems in information retrieval (IR), namely, polysemy, or term mismatch, and synonymy. In language models, these issues have been addressed by considering dependencies such as bigrams, phrasal-concepts, or word relationships, but such models are estimated using simple n-grams or concept counting. In this paper, we address polysemy and synonymy mismatch with a concept-based language modeling approach that combines ontological concepts from external resources with frequently found collocations from the document collection. In addition, the concept-based model is enriched with subconcepts and semantic relationships through a semantic smoothing technique so as to perform semantic matching. Experiments carried out on TREC collections show that our model achieves significant improvements over a single word-based model and the Markov Random Field model (using a Markov classifier)."
176	Analyzing data citation practices using the data citation index	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We present an analysis of data citation practices based on the Data Citation Index (DCI) (Thomson Reuters). This database launched in 2012 links data sets and data studies with citations received from the other citation indexes. The DCI harvests citations to research data from papers indexed in the Web of Science. It relies on the information provided by the data repository. The findings of this study show that data citation practices are far from common in most research fields. Some differences have been reported on the way researchers cite data: Although in the areas of science and engineering & technology data sets were the most cited, in the social sciences and arts & humanities data studies play a greater role. A total of 88.1% of the records have received no citation, but some repositories show very low uncitedness rates. Although data citation practices are rare in most fields, they have expanded in disciplines such as crystallography and genomics. We conclude by emphasizing the role that the DCI could play in encouraging the consistent, standardized citation of research dataa role that would enhance their value as a means of following the research process from data collection to publication."
177	An automatic method for assessing the teaching impact of books from online academic syllabi	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Scholars writing books that are widely used to support teaching in higher education may be undervalued because of a lack of evidence of teaching value. Although sales data may give credible evidence for textbooks, these data may poorly reflect educational uses of other types of books. As an alternative, this article proposes a method to search automatically for mentions of books in online academic course syllabi based on Bing searches for syllabi mentioning a given book, filtering out false matches through an extensive set of rules. The method had an accuracy of over 90% based on manual checks of a sample of 2,600 results from the initial Bing searches. Over one third of about 14,000 monographs checked had one or more academic syllabus mention, with more in the arts and humanities (56%) and social sciences (52%). Low but significant correlations between syllabus mentions and citations across most fields, except the social sciences, suggest that books tend to have different levels of impact for teaching and research. In conclusion, the automatic syllabus search method gives a new way to estimate the educational utility of books in a way that sales data and citation counts cannot."
178	The effects of research level and article type on the differences between citation metrics and F1000 recommendations	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"F1000 recommendations were assessed as a potential data source for research evaluation, but the reasons for differences between F1000 Article Factor (FFa scores) and citations remain unexplored. By linking recommendations for 28,254 publications in F1000 with citations in Scopus, we investigated the effect of research level (basic, clinical, mixed) and article type on the internal consistency of assessments based on citations and FFa scores. The research level has little impact on the differences between the 2 evaluation tools, while article type has a big effect. These 2 measures differ significantly for 2 groups: (a) nonprimary research or evidence-based research are more highly cited but not highly recommended, while (b) translational research or transformative research are more highly recommended but have fewer citations. This can be expected, since citation activity is usually practiced by academic authors while the potential for scientific revolutions and the suitability for clinical practice of an article should be investigated from a practitioners' perspective. We conclude with a recommendation that the application of bibliometric approaches in research evaluation should consider the proportion of 3 types of publications: evidence-based research, transformative research, and translational research. The latter 2 types are more suitable for assessment through peer review."
179	Mendeley readership counts: An investigation of temporal and disciplinary differences	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Scientists and managers using citation-based indicators to help evaluate research cannot evaluate recent articles because of the time needed for citations to accrue. Reading occurs before citing, however, and so it makes sense to count readers rather than citations for recent publications. To assess this, Mendeley readers and citations were obtained for articles from 2004 to late 2014 in five broad categories (agriculture, business, decision science, pharmacy, and the social sciences) and 50 subcategories. In these areas, citation counts tended to increase with every extra year since publication, and readership counts tended to increase faster initially but then stabilize after about 5 years. The correlation between citations and readers was also higher for longer time periods, stabilizing after about 5 years. Although there were substantial differences between broad fields and smaller differences between subfields, the results confirm the value of Mendeley reader counts as early scientific impact indicators."
180	Scientific research measures	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The evaluation of scientific research is crucial for both the academic community and society as a whole. Numerous bibliometric indices have been proposed for the ranking of research performance, mainly on an ad hoc basis. We introduce the novel class of Scientific Research Measures (SRMs) to rank scientists' research performance and provide a rigorous theoretical foundation for these measures. In contrast to many bibliometric indices, SRMs take into account the whole citation curve of the scientist, offer appealing structural properties, allow a finer ranking of scientists, correspond to specific features of different disciplines, research areas and seniorities, and include several bibliometric indices as special cases. Thus SRMs result in more accurate rankings than ad hoc bibliometric indices. We also introduce the further general class of Dual SRMs that reflect the value of journals and permit the ranking of research institutions based on theoretically sound criteria, which has been a central theme in the scientific community over recent decades. An empirical application to the citation curves of 173 finance scholars shows that SRMs can be easily calibrated to actual citation curves and generate different authors' rankings than those produced by seven traditional bibliometric indices."
181	"Highly cited papers in Library and Information Science (LIS): Authors, institutions, and network structures"	2016	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"As a follow-up to the highly cited authors list published by Thomson Reuters in June 2014, we analyzed the top 1% most frequently cited papers published between 2002 and 2012 included in the Web of Science (WoS) subject category Information Science & Library Science. In all, 798 authors contributed to 305 top 1% publications; these authors were employed at 275 institutions. The authors at Harvard University contributed the largest number of papers, when the addresses are whole-number counted. However, Leiden University leads the ranking if fractional counting is used. Twenty-three of the 798 authors were also listed as most highly cited authors by Thomson Reuters in June 2014 (). Twelve of these 23 authors were involved in publishing 4 or more of the 305 papers under study. Analysis of coauthorship relations among the 798 highly cited scientists shows that coauthorships are based on common interests in a specific topic. Three topics were important between 2002 and 2012: (a) collection and exploitation of information in clinical practices; (b) use of the Internet in public communication and commerce; and (c) scientometrics."
182	Toward Community-Inclusive Data Ecosystems: Challenges and Opportunities of Open Data for Community-Based Organizations	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The benefits of open data for helping to address societal problems and strengthen communities are well recognized, and unfortunately previous studies found that smaller communities are often excluded from the current data ecosystem because of existing technological, technical, cognitive, and practical barriers. This study aims to investigate the process of communities & apos; data use for community development and decision-making-focusing on the opportunities and challenges of data for communities. From the interviews with 25 staff from community-based organizations (CBOs) in nine small, medium, and large cities in the United States, the findings of this study describe data & apos;s role in supporting communities & apos; development while reporting several major challenges that hinder CBOs data use: difficulty accessing data, limitations of open data (un-local nature, excluding essential data from being open), limited data capacity (especially in data literacy skills), and difficulties using and accessing existing data infrastructures. Our findings suggest opportunities for addressing these challenges, particularly by creating educational programming, building partnerships within data ecosystems, and bringing community voices forward in current data ecosystems, which are critical to realizing data & apos;s potential for all citizens."
183	The Stability of Twitter Metrics: A Study on Unavailable Twitter Mentions of Scientific Publications	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study investigated the stability of Twitter counts of scientific publications over time. For this, we conducted an analysis of the availability statuses of over 2.6 million Twitter mentions received by the 1,154 most tweeted scientific publications recorded by up to October 2017. The results show that of the Twitter mentions for these highly tweeted publications, about 14.3% had become unavailable by April 2019. Deletion of tweets by users is the main reason for unavailability, followed by suspension and protection of Twitter user accounts. This study proposes two measures for describing the Twitter dissemination structures of publications: Degree of Originality (i.e., the proportion of original tweets received by an article) and Degree of Concentration (i.e., the degree to which retweets concentrate on a single original tweet). Twitter metrics of publications with relatively low Degree of Originality and relatively high Degree of Concentration were observed to be at greater risk of becoming unstable due to the potential disappearance of their Twitter mentions. In light of these results, we emphasize the importance of paying attention to the potential risk of unstable Twitter counts, and the significance of identifying the different Twitter dissemination structures when studying the Twitter metrics of scientific publications."
184	Demarcating spectrums of predatory publishing: Economic and institutional sources of academic legitimacy	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The emergence of open access (OA) publishing has altered incentives and opportunities for academic stakeholders and publishers. These changes have yielded a variety of new economic and academic niches, including journals with questionable peer-review systems and business models, commonly dubbed ""predatory publishing."" Empirical analysis of Cabell & apos;s Journal Blacklist reveals substantial diversity in types and degrees of predatory publishing. While some blacklisted publishers produce journals with many severe violations of academic norms, ""gray"" journals and publishers occupy borderline or ambiguous niches between predation and legitimacy. Predation in academic publishing is not a simple binary phenomenon and should instead be perceived as a spectrum with varying types and degrees of illegitimacy. Conceptions of predation are based on overlapping evaluations of academic and economic legitimacy. High institutional status benefits publishers by reducing conflicts between-if not aligning-professional and market institutional logics, which are more likely to conflict and create illegitimacy concerns in downmarket niches. High rejection rates imbue high-status journals with value and pricing power, while low-status OA journals face ""predatory"" incentives to optimize revenue via low selectivity. Status influences the social acceptability of profit-seeking in academic publishing, rendering lower-status publishers vulnerable to being perceived and stigmatized as illegitimate."
185	Equipped for resistance: An agonistic conceptualization of the public library as a verb	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"A theoretical framework for understanding public library development is presented; plural agonistics is used in combination with an approach inspired by posthumanism. The framework is related to examples from a study of two Swedish public libraries. Antagonism is viewed as foundational, and democracy as an ongoing process, the task being to transform antagonism to agonism, with institutions like libraries postulated as important spaces for adversaries to meet in dialogue. Libraries are viewed here as constantly becoming institutions, and the librarian's identity as an ongoing enactment of the library. To underscore the crucial role the library fills in society, it is conceptualized as a verb and a new word is proposed: to librarize. Discussions about the content of libraries are critical for librarians to find ways to perform the library. The ongoing debate is part of the professional performance of librarians. Librarians should, while acknowledging that there may be no single right way, debate over what is the most beneficial way to facilitate libraries' vital role in democracy. Conceptualizing of the library as a verb and its implications for librarianship as a possible active agent for radical change within society are offered as articulations of resistance."
186	"Libcitations, worldcat, cultural impact, and fame"	2018	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Just as citations to a book can be counted, so can that book's libcitations-the number of libraries in a consortium that hold it. These holdings counts per title can be obtained from the consortium's union catalog, such as OCLC's WorldCat. Librarians seeking to serve their customers well must be attuned to various kinds of merit in books. The result in WorldCat is a great variation in the libcitations particular books receive. The higher a title's count (or percentile), the more famous it is-either absolutely or within a subject class. Degree of fame also indicates cultural impact, allowing that further documentation of impact may be needed. Using WorldCat data, we illustrate high, medium, and low degrees of fame with 170 titles published during 1990-1995 or 2001-2006 and spanning the 10 main Dewey classes. We use their total libcitation counts or their counts from members of the Association of Research Libraries, or both, as of late 2011. Our analysis of their fame draws on the recognizability of their authors, the extent to which they and their authors are covered by Wikipedia, and whether they have movie or TV versions. Ordinal scales based on Wikipedia coverage and on libcitation counts are very significantly associated."
187	Survival analysis of author keywords: An application to the library and information sciences area	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Our purpose is to adapt a statistical method for the analysis of discrete numerical series to the keywords appearing in scientific articles of a given area. As an example, we apply our methodological approach to the study of the keywords in the Library and Information Sciences (LIS) area. Our objective is to detect the new author keywords that appear in a fixed knowledge area in the period of 1 year in order to quantify the probabilities of survival for 10 years as a function of the impact of the journals where they appeared. Many of the new keywords appearing in the LIS field are ephemeral. Actually, more than half are never used again. In general, the terms most commonly used in the LIS area come from other areas. The average survival time of these keywords is approximately 3 years, being slightly higher in the case of words that were published in journals classified in the second quartile of the area. We believe that measuring the appearance and disappearance of terms will allow understanding some relevant aspects of the evolution of a discipline, providing in this way a new bibliometric approach."
188	The Social Construction of Risk in Digital Preservation	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Digital information is fragile, yet access to digital information over time is a critical underpinning of core values and functions in our society, from open government to research and scholarship. Digital preservation research has focused on identifying technical, economic, and organizational sources of risk and has relied on an assumption that individuals will behave in rational and predictable ways in response to the same information. This article asserts that viewing digital preservation as a process that takes place in complex social contexts is just as important as thinking about digital preservation in terms of technological or economic issues. This is particularly important for understanding how individuals involved in digital preservation construct their understanding of risk because social factors influence how people construct their understanding of, and behave in response to, risk information. The author proposes an eight-factor model for the social construction of risk, which includes: communication, complexity, expertise, organizations, political culture, trust, uncertainty, and vulnerability. The article demonstrates how these factors influence individuals as they construct their understanding of risk in the context of digital preservation and how this in turn affects digital preservation decisions."
189	A contextual approach to information privacy research	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In this position article, we synthesize various knowledge gaps in information privacy scholarship and propose a research agenda that promotes greater cross-disciplinary collaboration within the iSchool community and beyond. We start by critically examining Westin's conceptualization of information privacy and argue for a contextual approach that holds promise for overcoming some of Westin's weaknesses. We then highlight three contextual considerations for studying privacy-digital networks, marginalized populations, and the global context-and close by discussing how these considerations advance privacy theorization and technology design."
190	"Quality, impact, and quantification: Indicators and metrics use by social scientists"	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The use of indicators and metrics for research evaluation purposes is well-documented; however, less is known about their use by individual scholars. With a focus on the social sciences, this article contributes to the existing literature on indicators and metrics use in fields with diverse publication practices. Scholars in Australia and Sweden were asked about their use and reasons for using metrics. A total of 581 completed surveys were analyzed to generate descriptive statistics, with textual analysis performed on comments provided to open questions. While just under half of the participant group had used metrics, the Australians reported use in twice the proportion of their Swedish peers. Institutional policies and processes were frequently associated with use, and the scholars' comments suggest a high level of awareness of some metrics as well as strategic behavior in demonstrating research performance. There is also evidence of tensions between scholars' research evaluation environment and their disciplinary values and publication practices."
191	"The ""Had Mores"": Exploring korean immigrants' information behavior and ICT usage when settling in the United States"	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The process of settling in a new country can be extremely challenging, entailing various information needs to cope with rapid changes and adjustments to a new environment. Through interviews with 16 Korean immigrants in the United States, we explored their information behaviors in the settlement process. In line with prior work (Shoham & Strauss, 2008), we found that Korean immigrants needed various types of information: housing, work, banking, transportation, law, school, health, and language. Out of these information types, the Korean immigrants prioritized information for education and struggled to seek health and legal information. We further uncovered that various information needs are closely intertwined and found an additional type of information need: to build a new social network after migration. They often used Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) as information sources while adapting the ICT infrastructures of the U.S. into their information practices. ICTs enabled them to build and maintain ""local"" and ""global"" identity; however, they may struggle to assess user-generated content in the new context. We noted that their strong use of ICTs for intraethnic interaction might slow down their integration into the host society. We discuss implications for future work to support immigrants' settlement in the host country."
192	When to stop making relevance judgments? A study of stopping methods for building information retrieval test collections	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In information retrieval evaluation, pooling is a well-known technique to extract a sample of documents to be assessed for relevance. Given the pooled documents, a number of studies have proposed different prioritization methods to adjudicate documents for judgment. These methods follow different strategies to reduce the assessment effort. However, there is no clear guidance on how many relevance judgments are required for creating a reliable test collection. In this article we investigate and further develop methods to determine when to stop making relevance judgments. We propose a highly diversified set of stopping methods and provide a comprehensive analysis of the usefulness of the resulting test collections. Some of the stopping methods introduced here combine innovative estimates of recall with time series models used in Financial Trading. Experimental results on several representative collections show that some stopping methods can reduce up to 95% of the assessment effort and still produce a robust test collection. We demonstrate that the reduced set of judgments can be reliably employed to compare search systems using disparate effectiveness metrics such as Average Precision, NDCG, P@100, and Rank Biased Precision. With all these measures, the correlations found between full pool rankings and reduced pool rankings is very high."
193	Author-based analysis of conference versus journal publication in computer science	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"y Conference publications in computer science (CS) have attracted scholarly attention due to their unique status as a main research outlet, unlike other science fields where journals are dominantly used for communicating research findings. One frequent research question has been how different conference and journal publications are, considering an article as a unit of analysis. This study takes an author-based approach to analyze the publishing patterns of 517,763 scholars who have ever published both in CS conferences and journals for the last 57 years, as recorded in DBLP. The analysis shows that the majority of CS scholars tend to make their scholarly debut, publish more articles, and collaborate with more coauthors in conferences than in journals. Importantly, conference articles seem to serve as a distinct channel of scholarly communication, not a mere preceding step to journal publications: coauthors and title words of authors across conferences and journals tend not to overlap much. This study corroborates findings of previous studies on this topic from a distinctive perspective and suggests that conference authorship in CS calls for more special attention from scholars and administrators outside CS who have focused on journal publications to mine authorship data and evaluate scholarly performance."
194	Library Cultures of Data Curation: Adventures in Astronomy	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"University libraries are partnering with disciplinary data producers to provide long-term digital curation of research data sets. Managing data set producer expectations and guiding future development of library services requires understanding the decisions libraries make about curatorial activities, why they make these decisions, and the effects on future data reuse. We present a study, comprising interviews (n = 43) and ethnographic observation, of two university libraries who partnered with the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) collaboration to curate a significant astronomy data set. The two libraries made different choices of the materials to curate and associated services, which resulted in different reuse possibilities. Each of the libraries offered partial solutions to the SDSS leaders' objectives. The libraries' approaches to curation diverged due to contextual factors, notably the extant infrastructure at their disposal (including technical infrastructure, staff expertise, values and internal culture, and organizational structure). The Data Transfer Process case offers lessons in understanding how libraries choose curation paths and how these choices influence possibilities for data reuse. Outcomes may not match data producers' initial expectations but may create opportunities for reusing data in unexpected and beneficial ways."
195	I can't express my thanks enough: The gratitude cycle in online communities	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Gratitude is a fundamental aspect of social interaction that positively influences emotional and social well-being. It is also crucial for promoting online community health by motivating participation. However, how gratitude occurs and can be encouraged in online communities is not yet well understood. This exploratory study investigated how online community users experience gratitude, focusing on how gratitude expression and acknowledgment occurs, can break down or can be reinforced. Semistructured Critical Incident interviews were conducted with 8 users of various online communities, including discussion and support groups, social Q&A sites, and review sites, eliciting 17 memorable examples of giving and receiving thanks online. The findings gave rise to a process model of gratitude in online communities-the ""gratitude cycle,"" which provides a detailed, holistic understanding of the experience of gratitude online that can inform the design of online community platforms that aim to motivate users to perpetuate the cycle. An enriched understanding of gratitude in online communities can help ensure future platforms better support the expression and acknowledgment of thanks, encouraging participation."
196	Information behaviors in disadvantaged and dependent circumstances and the role of information intermediaries	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article provides the first empirical study focused exclusively on the information intermediary role in disadvantaged (socioeconomic) and dependent (support) circumstances. We report findings from interviews and focus groups with 49 UK state and voluntary sector professionals providing support to young (<21) mothers from areas of multiple deprivations. We evidence an important information intermediary role with three key contributions to information behaviors in disadvantaged and dependent circumstances. Intermediaries: facilitate information needs recognition, and consider purposeful action within problematic situations; are a key source of information in themselves, and a key integrative connection to other external sources not otherwise accessed; and tailor and personalize information for relevance, and communicate via incremental and recursive cycles that take into account learning needs. We provide parameters for a theory of information intermediary intervention to guide future examination of an important and understudied role; and conceptualize important theoretical relationships between information behavior and social capital, and in particular shared concepts of social integration, and the progressive and integrative intermediary role within. Our findings have significant practical implications for public health policy and digital health strategies, as they evidence an important human information intermediary role among an at-risk group, with implications for disadvantaged and vulnerable populations more broadly."
197	Comparing neural- and N-gram-based language models for word segmentation	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Word segmentation is the task of inserting or deleting word boundary characters in order to separate character sequences that correspond to words in some language. In this article we propose an approach based on a beam search algorithm and a language model working at the byte/character level, the latter component implemented either as an n-gram model or a recurrent neural network. The resulting system analyzes the text input with no word boundaries one token at a time, which can be a character or a byte, and uses the information gathered by the language model to determine if a boundary must be placed in the current position or not. Our aim is to use this system in a preprocessing step for a microtext normalization system. This means that it needs to effectively cope with the data sparsity present on this kind of texts. We also strove to surpass the performance of two readily available word segmentation systems: The well-known and accessible Word Breaker by Microsoft, and the Python module WordSegment by Grant Jenks. The results show that we have met our objectives, and we hope to continue to improve both the precision and the efficiency of our system in the future."
198	The Relative Influences of Government Funding and International Collaboration on Citation Impact	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"A recent publication in Nature reports that public R&D funding is only weakly correlated with the citation impact of a nation's articles as measured by the field-weighted citation index (FWCI; defined by Scopus). On the basis of the supplementary data, we up-scaled the design using Web of Science data for the decade 2003-2013 and OECD funding data for the corresponding decade assuming a 2-year delay (2001-2011). Using negative binomial regression analysis, we found very small coefficients, but the effects of international collaboration are positive and statistically significant, whereas the effects of government funding are negative, an order of magnitude smaller, and statistically nonsignificant (in two of three analyses). In other words, international collaboration improves the impact of research articles, whereas more government funding tends to have a small adverse effect when comparing OECD countries."
199	The dearest of our possessions: Applying Floridi's information privacy concept in models of information behavior and information literacy	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This conceptual article argues for the value of an approach to privacy in the digital information environment informed by Luciano Floridi's philosophy of information and information ethics. This approach involves achieving informational privacy, through the features of anonymity and obscurity, through an optimal balance of ontological frictions. This approach may be used to modify models for information behavior and for information literacy, giving them a fuller and more effective coverage of privacy issues in the infosphere. For information behavior, the Information Seeking and Communication Model and the Information Grounds conception are most appropriate for this purpose. For information literacy, the metaliteracy model, using a modification a privacy literacy framework, is most suitable."
200	The MIREX Grand Challenge: A Framework of Holistic User-Experience Evaluation in Music Information Retrieval	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Music Information Retrieval (MIR) evaluation has traditionally focused on system-centered approaches where components of MIR systems are evaluated against predefined data sets and golden answers (i.e., ground truth). There are two major limitations of such system-centered evaluation approaches: (a) The evaluation focuses on subtasks in music information retrieval, but not on entire systems and (b) users and their interactions with MIR systems are largely excluded. This article describes the first implementation of a holistic user-experience evaluation in MIR, the MIREX Grand Challenge, where complete MIR systems are evaluated, with user experience being the single overarching goal. It is the first time that complete MIR systems have been evaluated with end users in a realistic scenario. We present the design of the evaluation task, the evaluation criteria and a novel evaluation interface, and the data-collection platform. This is followed by an analysis of the results, reflection on the experience and lessons learned, and plans for future directions."
201	Evaluating Topic Representations for Exploring Document Collections	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Topic models have been shown to be a useful way of representing the content of large document collections, for example, via visualization interfaces (topic browsers). These systems enable users to explore collections by way of latent topics. A standard way to represent a topic is using a term list; that is the top-n words with highest conditional probability within the topic. Other topic representations such as textual and image labels also have been proposed. However, there has been no comparison of these alternative representations. In this article, we compare 3 different topic representations in a document retrieval task. Participants were asked to retrieve relevant documents based on predefined queries within a fixed time limit, presenting topics in one of the following modalities: (a) lists of terms, (b) textual phrase labels, and (c) image labels. Results show that textual labels are easier for users to interpret than are term lists and image labels. Moreover, the precision of retrieved documents for textual and image labels is comparable to the precision achieved by representing topics using term lists, demonstrating that labeling methods are an effective alternative topic representation."
202	Using Course-Subject Co-Occurrence (CSCO) to Reveal the Structure of an Academic Discipline: A Framework to Evaluate Different Inputs of a Domain Map	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article proposes, exemplifies, and validates the use of course-subject co-occurrence (CSCO) data to generate topic maps of an academic discipline. A CSCO event is when 2 course-subjects are taught in the same academic year by the same teacher. A total of 61,856 CSCO events were extracted from the 2010-11 directory of the American Association of Law Schools and used to visualize the structure of law school education in the United States. Different normalization, ordination (layout), and clustering algorithms were compared and the best performing algorithm of each type was used to generate the final map. Validation studies demonstrate that CSCO produces topic maps that are consistent with expert opinion and 4 other indicators of the topical similarity of law school course-subjects. This research is the first to use CSCO to produce a visualization of a domain. It is also the first to use an expanded, multi-part gold standard to evaluate the validity of domain maps and the intermediate steps in their creation. It is suggested that the framework used herein may be adopted for other studies that compare different inputs of a domain map in order to empirically derive the best maps as measured against extrinsic sources of topical similarity (gold standards)."
203	"Can ""Hot Spots"" in the Sciences Be Mapped Using the Dynamics of Aggregated Journal-Journal Citation Relations?"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Using 3 years of the Journal Citation Reports (2011, 2012, and 2013), indicators of transitions in 2012 (between 2011 and 2013) were studied using methodologies based on entropy statistics. Changes can be indicated at the level of journals using the margin totals of entropy production along the row or column vectors, but also at the level of links among journals by importing the transition matrices into network analysis and visualization programs (and using community-finding algorithms). Seventy-four journals were flagged in terms of discontinuous changes in their citations, but 3,114 journals were involved in hot links. Most of these links are embedded in a main component; 78 clusters (containing 172 journals) were flagged as potential hot spots emerging at the network level. An additional finding was that PLoS ONE introduced a new communication dynamic into the database. The limitations of the methodology were elaborated using an example. The results of the study indicate where developments in the citation dynamics can be considered as significantly unexpected. This can be used as heuristic information, but what a hot spot in terms of the entropy statistics of aggregated citation relations means substantively can be expected to vary from case to case."
204	Strategic Intelligence on Emerging Technologies: Scientometric Overlay Mapping	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This paper examines the use of scientometric overlay mapping as a tool of strategic intelligence to aid the governing of emerging technologies. We develop an integrative synthesis of different overlay mapping techniques and associated perspectives on technological emergence across geographical, social, and cognitive spaces. To do so, we longitudinally analyze (with publication and patent data) three case studies of emerging technologies in the medical domain. These are RNA interference (RNAi), human papillomavirus (HPV) testing technologies for cervical cancer, and thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) genetic testing. Given the flexibility (i.e., adaptability to different sources of data) and granularity (i.e., applicability across multiple levels of data aggregation) of overlay mapping techniques, we argue that these techniques can favor the integration and comparison of results from different contexts and cases, thus potentially functioning as a platform for distributed strategic intelligence for analysts and decision makers."
205	Scholarly Publication and Collaboration in Brazil: The Role of Geography	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Brazilian scholarly output has rapidly increased, accompanied by the expansion of domestic collaborations. In this paper, we identify spatial patterns of collaboration in Brazil and measure the role of geographic proximity in determining the interaction among researchers. Using a database comprising more than one million researchers and seven million publications, we consolidated information on interregional research collaboration in terms of scientific coauthorship networks among 4,615 municipalities during the period between 1992 and 2009, which allowed us to analyze a range of data unprecedented in the literature. The effects of geographic distance on collaboration were measured for different areas by estimating spatial interaction models. The main results provide strong evidence of geographic deconcentration of collaboration in recent years, with increased participation of authors in scientifically less traditional regions, such as south and northeast Brazil. Distance remains a significant factor in determining the intensity of knowledge flow in collaboration networks in Brazil, as an increase of 100km between two researchers reduces the probability of collaboration by an average of 16%, and there is no evidence that the effect of distance has diminished over time, although the magnitude of such effects varies among networks of different areas."
206	"Risks, benefits, and control of information: Two studies of smart electric meter privacy"	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Smart electric meters collect data on electricity use to potentially improve efficiency for utilities, shape power consumption, and ultimately reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Consumer groups and experts have raised concerns about privacy, as smart meters can provide detailed information about activity within the home. This study examines privacy beliefs of U.S. consumers using qualitative data from focus groups together with experimental data from a national online survey of utility customers. Exploratory analysis of focus group findings suggested that consumers who felt in control of their data perceived fewer risks and more benefits from having access to the data. Participants in the online experiment saw greater risk and less benefit when advised that smart meters could be used to raise prices under time-of-use pricing. Participants also saw greater risk when the utility shared customer data with a third party. Risks and benefits influenced perceptions of control. These findings accord with several information privacy frameworks adding new insights about consumers' perceived control over their energy data. The findings can inform utility companies and policymakers with respect to giving consumers more control over their data, reducing consumers' privacy concerns, communicating benefits of smart meter data, and providing accurate information about the risks."
207	Keeping Up to Date: An Academic Researcher's Information Journey	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Keeping up to date with research developments is a central activity of academic researchers, but researchers face difficulties in managing the rapid growth of available scientific information. This study examined how researchers stay up to date, using the information journey model as a framework for analysis and investigating which dimensions influence information behaviors. We designed a 2-round study involving semistructured interviews and prototype testing with 61 researchers with 3 levels of seniority (PhD student to professor). Data were analyzed following a semistructured qualitative approach. Five key dimensions that influence information behaviors were identified: level of seniority, information sources, state of the project, level of familiarity, and how well defined the relevant community is. These dimensions are interrelated and their values determine the flow of the information journey. Across all levels of professional expertise, researchers used similar hard (formal) sources to access content, while soft (interpersonal) sources were used to filter information. An important ""pain point"" that future information tools should address is helping researchers filter information at the point of need."
208	Gender as an Influencer of Online Health Information-Seeking and Evaluation Behavior	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article contributes to the growing body of research that explores the significance of context in health information behavior. Specifically, through the lens of trust judgments, it demonstrates that gender is a determinant of the information evaluation process. A questionnaire-based survey collected data from adults regarding the factors that influence their judgment of the trustworthiness of online health information. Both men and women identified credibility, recommendation, ease of use, and brand as being of importance in their trust judgments. However, women also take into account style, while men eschew this for familiarity. In addition, men appear to be more concerned with the comprehensiveness and accuracy of the information, the ease with which they can access it, and its familiarity, whereas women demonstrate greater interest in cognition, such as the ease with which they can read and understand the information. These gender differences are consistent with the demographic data, which suggest that: women consult more types of sources than men; men are more likely to be searching with respect to a long-standing health complaint; and, women are more likely than men to use tablets in their health information seeking. Recommendations for further research to better inform practice are offered."
209	Developing an empirical measure of everyday information mastering	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The aim of the study was to develop an empirical measure for everyday information mastering (EIM). EIM describes the ways that individuals, based on their beliefs, attitudes, and expectations, orient themselves to information as a resource of everyday action. The key features of EIM were identified by conceptual analysis focusing on three EIM frameworks. Four modes of EIM-Proactive, Social, Reactive, and Passive-and their 12 constituents were identified. A survey of 39 items was developed in two pilot studies to operationalize the identified modes as measurable EIM constituents. The respondents in the main study were upper secondary school students (n =412). Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) was applied to validate subscales for each EIM constituent. Seven subscales emerged: Inquiring and Scanning in the Proactive mode, Social media-centered, and Experiential in the Social mode, and Information poor, Overwhelmed, and Blunting in the Passive mode. Two constituents, Serendipitous and Intuitive, were not supported in the EFA. The findings highlight that the core constituents of an individual's everyday information mastering can be operationalized as psychometric scales. The instrument contributes to the systematic empirical study of EIM constituents and their relationships. The study further sheds light on key modes of EIM."
210	Interactive faceted query suggestion for exploratory search: Whole-session effectiveness and interaction engagement	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The outcome of exploratory information retrieval is not only dependent on the effectiveness of individual responses to a set of queries, but also on relevant information retrieved during the entire exploratory search session. We study the effect of search assistance, operationalized as an interactive faceted query suggestion, for both whole-session effectiveness and engagement through interactive faceted query suggestion. A user experiment is reported, where users performed exploratory search tasks, comparing interactive faceted query suggestion and a control condition with only conventional typed-query interaction. Data comprised of interaction and search logs show that the availability of interactive faceted query suggestion substantially improves whole-session effectiveness by increasing recall without sacrificing precision. The increased engagement with interactive faceted query suggestion is targeted to direct situated navigation around the initial query scope, but is not found to improve individual queries on average. The results imply that research in exploratory search should focus on measuring and designing tools that engage users with directed situated navigation support for improving whole-session performance."
211	The collective trolling lifecycle	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Although collective trolling is an integral part of online communities, it has received little scholarly attention. Research on collective trolling, which involves an organized group trolling effort, is in its infancy perhaps because early works on online trolling depicted it as the deviant behavior of individuals who acted in isolation and under hidden identity. Thus, it is still unclear what collective trolling is and how it evolves. To address this gap, we collected 12,840 posts and comments pertinent to a brief, controversial, and very visible collective trolling event. The event, which surrounded Chinese rapper PG One on the Chinese microblogging platformSina Weibo, received 40 million reads in 1 day and a lot of media attention. Based on a thematic content analysis of 480 posts, we describe the collective trolling lifecycle through five distinct stages defined by posting frequency and content of posts. We also explain the transformation of participants' roles, tactics, motives, behavioral tone, and the variations in their thematic content, stakeholder group affiliation, and roles over time. The major contributions of the study are the characterization of collective trolling, and the addition of a lifecycle model to the understanding of trolling as sociotechnical, context-dependent, and multidimensional phenomenon."
212	Patent Citation Analysis With Google	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Citations from patents to scientific publications provide useful evidence about the commercial impact of academic research, but automatically searchable databases are needed to exploit this connection for large-scale patent citation evaluations. Google covers multiple different international patent office databases but does not index patent citations or allow automatic searches. In response, this article introduces a semiautomatic indirect method via Bing to extract and filter patent citations from Google to academic papers with an overall precision of 98%. The method was evaluated with 322,192 science and engineering Scopus articles from every second year for the period 1996-2012. Although manual Google Patent searches give more results, especially for articles with many patent citations, the difference is not large enough to be a major problem. Within Biomedical Engineering, Biotechnology, and Pharmacology & Pharmaceutics, 7% to 10% of Scopus articles had at least one patent citation but other fields had far fewer, so patent citation analysis is only relevant for a minority of publications. Low but positive correlations between Google Patent citations and Scopus citations across all fields suggest that traditional citation counts cannot substitute for patent citations when evaluating research."
213	Analyzing Web Behavior in Indoor Retail Spaces	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We analyze 18- million rows of Wi-Fi access logs collected over a 1-year period from over 120,000 anonymized users at an inner city shopping mall. The anonymized data set gathered from an opt-in system provides users' approximate physical location as well as web browsing and some search history. Such data provide a unique opportunity to analyze the interaction between people's behavior in physical retail spaces and their web behavior, serving as a proxy to their information needs. We found that (a) there is a weekly periodicity in users' visits to the mall; (b) people tend to visit similar mall locations and web content during their repeated visits to the mall; (c) around 60% of registered Wi-Fi users actively browse the web, and around 10% of them use Wi-Fi for accessing web search engines; (d) people are likely to spend a relatively constant amount of time browsing the web while the duration of their visit may vary; (e) the physical spatial context has a small, but significant, influence on the web content that indoor users browse; and (f) accompanying users tend to access resources from the same web domains."
214	The diverse niches of megajournals: Specialism within generalism	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Over the past decade, megajournals have expanded in popularity and established a legitimate niche in academic publishing. Leveraging advantages of digital publishing, megajournals are characterized by large publication volume, broad interdisciplinary scope, and peer-review filters that select primarily for scientific soundness as opposed to novelty or originality. These publishing innovations are complementary and competitive vis-a-vis traditional journals. We analyze how megajournals (PLOS One,Scientific Reports) are represented in different fields relative to prominent generalist journals (Nature,PNAS,Science) and ""quasi-megajournals"" (Nature Communications,PeerJ). Our results show that both megajournals and prominent traditional journals have distinctive niches, despite the similar interdisciplinary scopes of such journals. These niches-defined by publishing volume and disciplinary diversity-are dynamic and varied over the relatively brief histories of the analyzed megajournals. Although the life sciences are the predominant contributor to megajournals, there is variation in the disciplinary composition of different megajournals. The growth trajectories and disciplinary composition of generalist journals-including megajournals-reflect changing knowledge dissemination and reward structures in science."
215	Effect of forename string on author name disambiguation	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In author name disambiguation, author forenames are used to decide which name instances are disambiguated together and how much they are likely to refer to the same author. Despite such a crucial role of forenames, their effect on the performance of heuristic (string matching) and algorithmic disambiguation is not well understood. This study assesses the contributions of forenames in author name disambiguation using multiple labeled data sets under varying ratios and lengths of full forenames, reflecting real-world scenarios in which an author is represented by forename variants (synonym) and some authors share the same forenames (homonym). The results show that increasing the ratios of full forenames substantially improves both heuristic and machine-learning-based disambiguation. Performance gains by algorithmic disambiguation are pronounced when many forenames are initialized or homonyms are prevalent. As the ratios of full forenames increase, however, they become marginal compared to those by string matching. Using a small portion of forename strings does not reduce much the performances of both heuristic and algorithmic disambiguation methods compared to using full-length strings. These findings provide practical suggestions, such as restoring initialized forenames into a full-string format via record linkage for improved disambiguation performances."
216	Quantifying Biases in Online Information Exposure	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Our consumption of online information is mediated by filtering, ranking, and recommendation algorithms that introduce unintentional biases as they attempt to deliver relevant and engaging content. It has been suggested that our reliance on online technologies such as search engines and social media may limit exposure to diverse points of view and make us vulnerable to manipulation by disinformation. In this article, we mine a massive data set of web traffic to quantify two kinds of bias: (i) homogeneity bias, which is the tendency to consume content from a narrow set of information sources, and (ii) popularity bias, which is the selective exposure to content from top sites. Our analysis reveals different bias levels across several widely used web platforms. Search exposes users to a diverse set of sources, while social media traffic tends to exhibit high popularity and homogeneity bias. When we focus our analysis on traffic to news sites, we find higher levels of popularity bias, with smaller differences across applications. Overall, our results quantify the extent to which our choices of online systems confine us inside social bubbles."
217	10SENT: A stable sentiment analysis method based on the combination of off-the-shelf approaches	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Sentiment analysis has become a very important tool for analysis of social media data. There are several methods developed, covering distinct aspects of the problem and disparate strategies. However, no single technique fits well in all cases or for all data sources. Supervised approaches may be able to adapt to specific situations, but require manually labeled training, which is very cumbersome and expensive to acquire, mainly for a new application. In this context, we propose to combine several popular and effective state-of-the-practice sentiment analysis methods by means of an unsupervised bootstrapped strategy. One of our main goals is to reduce the large variability (low stability) of the unsupervised methods across different domains. The experimental results demonstrate that our combined method (aka, 10SENT) improves the effectiveness of the classification task, considering thirteen different data sets. Also, it tackles the key problem of cross-domain low stability and produces the best (or close to best) results in almost all considered contexts, without any additional costs (e.g., manual labeling). Finally, we also investigate a transfer learning approach for sentiment analysis to gather additional (unsupervised) information for the proposed approach, and we show the potential of this technique to improve our results."
218	The field-specific reference patterns of periodical and nonserial publications	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study is concerned with differences in referencing patterns between book literature and periodical publications. Four indicators, the mean reference rate per page, the percentage of references to Web of Science journal literature, the mean reference age, and Price Index, were applied to analyze the reference patterns of three publication types: books, book chapter articles and journal articles. References of publications indexed in Web of Science Core Collection were analyzed for two periods (2005-2009, 2010-2013) and across 15 disciplines. Journal article authors cite more recent references and more references from serial publications than monograph authors. The difference between the sciences and the SSH is as obvious as the difference between periodical and non-serial publications. However, the reference patterns of social sciences are much more similar to science fields than humanities, especially for monographs. The subject characteristics of reference pattern are strongly affected by publication types. Furthermore, journal publications have stronger associations between ageing indicators and the share of WoS journal references than monographs."
219	The effectiveness of correction & republication as quality control in scholarly communication - A bibliometric analysis	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The practice of correction and republication is a mechanism for identifying and updating non-maleficent yet message-distorting errors in the biomedical literature. Inappropriate use of anomalous literature is evinced by citation of invalidated scholarly works, and though it is known that republished versions of articles are cited more often than corrected versions, the strength of the effect of invalidation, correction, and republication has not been previously quantified. Robust analysis of 15,000+ citations to 548 articles indexed in PubMed indicates that the practice of correction and republication is a strong predictor of reduced post-republication citation relative to controls. This bibliometric analysis shows that corrected articles are cited on average 51% less than controls overall and that the practice of correction and republication results in a fast-acting and long-lasting reduction in citation of flawed works by downstream researchers."
220	Cultural factors and the role of privacy concerns in acceptance of government surveillance	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Though there is a tension between citizens' privacy concerns and their acceptance of government surveillance, there is little systematic research in this space and less still in a cross-cultural context. We address the research gap by modeling the factors that drive public acceptance of government surveillance, and by exploring the influence of national culture. The research involved an online survey of 242 Australian and Sri Lankan residents. Data were analyzed using partial least squares, revealing that privacy concerns around initial collection of citizens' data influenced levels of acceptance of surveillance in Australia but not Sri Lanka, whereas concerns about secondary use of data did not influence levels of acceptance in either country. These findings suggest that respondents conflate surveillance with the collection of data and may not consider subsequent secondary use. We also investigate cultural differences, finding that societal collectivism and power distance significantly affect the strength of the relationships between privacy concerns and acceptance of surveillance, on the one hand, and adoption of privacy protections, on the other. Our research also considers the role of trust in government, and perceived need for surveillance. Findings are discussed with their implications for theory and practice."
221	"Identifying Potential ""Breakthrough"" Publications Using Refined Citation Analyses: Three Related Explorative Approaches"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The article presents three advanced citation-based methods used to detect potential breakthrough articles among very highly cited articles. We approach the detection of such articles from three different perspectives in order to provide different typologies of breakthrough articles. In all three cases we use the hierarchical classification of scientific publications developed at CWTS based on direct citation relationships. We assume that such contextualized articles focus on similar research interests. We utilize the characteristics scores and scales (CSS) approach to partition citation distributions and implement a specific filtering algorithm to sort out potential highly-cited ""followers,"" articles not considered breakthroughs. After invoking thresholds and filtering, three methods are explored: A very exclusive one where only the highest cited article in a micro-cluster is considered as a potential breakthrough article (M1); as well as two conceptually different methods, one that detects potential breakthrough articles among the 2% highest cited articles according to CSS (M2a), and finally a more restrictive version where, in addition to the CSS 2% filter, knowledge diffusion is also considered (M2b). The advance citation-based methods are explored and evaluated using validated publication sets linked to different Danish funding instruments including centers of excellence."
222	Are Wikipedia Citations Important Evidence of the Impact of Scholarly Articles and Books?	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Individual academics and research evaluators often need to assess the value of published research. Although citation counts are a recognized indicator of scholarly impact, alternative data is needed to provide evidence of other types of impact, including within education and wider society. Wikipedia is a logical choice for both of these because the role of a general encyclopaedia is to be an understandable repository of facts about a diverse array of topics and hence it may cite research to support its claims. To test whether Wikipedia could provide new evidence about the impact of scholarly research, this article counted citations to 302,328 articles and 18,735 monographs in English indexed by Scopus in the period 2005 to 2012. The results show that citations from Wikipedia to articles are too rare for most research evaluation purposes, with only 5% of articles being cited in all fields. In contrast, a third of monographs have at least one citation from Wikipedia, with the most in the arts and humanities. Hence, Wikipedia citations can provide extra impact evidence for academic monographs. Nevertheless, the results may be relatively easily manipulated and so Wikipedia is not recommended for evaluations affecting stakeholder interests."
223	Funding Acknowledgment Analysis: Queries and Caveats	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Thomson Reuters's Web of Science (WoS) began systematically collecting acknowledgment information in August 2008. Since then, bibliometric analysis of funding acknowledgment (FA) has been growing and has aroused intense interest and attention from both academia and policy makers. Examining the distribution of FA by citation index database, by language, and by acknowledgment type, we noted coverage limitations and potential biases in each analysis. We argue that despite its great value, bibliometric analysis of FA should be used with caution."
224	The Effect of Social Media Promotion on Academic Article Uptake	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Important emerging measures of academic impact are article download and citation rates. Yet little is known about the influences on these and ways in which academics might manage this approach to dissemination. Three groups of papers by academics in a center for speech-language-science (available through a university repository) were compared. The first group of target papers were blogged, and the blogs were systematically tweeted. The second group of connected control papers were nonblogged papers that we carefully matched for author, topic, and year of publication. The third group were papers by different staff members on a variety of topics-Unrelated Control Papers. The results suggest an effect of social media on download rate, which was limited not just to Target Papers but also generalized to Connected Control Papers. Unrelated Control Papers showed no increase over the same amount of time (main effect of time, F(1,27) = 55.6, p < .001); Significant Group x Time Interaction, F(2,27) = 7.9, p = .002). The effect on citation rates was less clear but followed the same trend. The only predictor of the 2015 citation rate was downloads after blogging (r = 0.450, p = .012). These preliminary results suggest that promotion of academic articles via social media may enhance download and citation rate and that this has implications for impact strategies."
225	Hypertext Configurations: Genres in Networked Digital Media	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The article presents a conceptual framework for distinguishing different sorts of heterogeneous digital materials. The hypothesis is that a wide range of heterogeneous data resources can be characterized and classified due to their particular configurations of hypertext features such as scripts, links, interactive processes, and time scalings, and that the hypertext configuration is a major but not sole source of the messiness of big data. The notion of hypertext will be revalidated, placed at the center of the interpretation of networked digital media, and used in the analysis of the fast-growing amounts of heterogeneous digital collections, assemblages, and corpora. The introduction summarizes the wider background of a fast-changing data landscape."
226	Behavior-Based Personalization in Web Search	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Personalized search approaches tailor search results to users' current interests, so as to help improve the likelihood of a user finding relevant documents for their query. Previous work on personalized search focuses on using the content of the user's query and of the documents clicked to model the user's preference. In this paper we focus on a different type of signal: We investigate the use of behavioral information for the purpose of search personalization. That is, we consider clicks and dwell time for reranking an initially retrieved list of documents. In particular, we (i) investigate the impact of distributions of users and queries on document reranking; (ii) estimate the relevance of a document for a query at 2 levels, at the query-level and at the word-level, to alleviate the problem of sparseness; and (iii) perform an experimental evaluation both for users seen during the training period and for users not seen during training. For the latter, we explore the use of information from similar users who have been seen during the training period. We use the dwell time on clicked documents to estimate a document's relevance to a query, and perform Bayesian probabilistic matrix factorization to generate a relevance distribution of a document over queries. Our experiments show that: (i) for personalized ranking, behavioral information helps to improve retrieval effectiveness; and (ii) given a query, merging information inferred from behavior of a particular user and from behaviors of other users with a user-dependent adaptive weight outperforms any combination with a fixed weight."
227	Story-Focused Reading in Online News and Its Potential for User Engagement	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We study the news reading behavior of several hundred thousand users on 65 highly visited news sites. We focus on a specific phenomenon: users reading several articles related to a particular news development, which we call story-focused reading. Our goal is to understand the effect of story-focused reading on user engagement and how news sites can support this phenomenon. We found that most users focus on stories that interest them and that even casual news readers engage in story-focused reading. During story-focused reading, users spend more time reading and a larger number of news sites are involved. In addition, readers employ different strategies to find articles related to a story. We also analyze how news sites promote story-focused reading by looking at how they link their articles to related content published by them, or by other sources. The results show that providing links to related content leads to a higher engagement of the users, and that this is the case even for links to external sites. We also show that the performance of links can be affected by their type, their position, and how many of them are present within an article."
228	Data Reusers' Trust Development	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Data reuse refers to the secondary use of data-not for its original purpose but for studying new problems. Although reusing data might not yet be the norm in every discipline, the benefits of reusing shared data have been asserted by a number of researchers, and data reuse has been a major concern in many disciplines. Assessing data for trustworthiness becomes important in data reuse with the growth in data creation because of the lack of standards for ensuring data quality and potential harm from using poor-quality data. This research explores many facets of data reusers' trust in data generated by other researchers focusing on the trust judgment process with influential factors that determine reusers' trust. The author took an interpretive qualitative approach by using in-depth semistructured interviews as the primary research method. The study results suggest different stages of trust development associated with the process of data reuse. Data reusers' trust may remain the same throughout their experiences, but it can also be formed, lost, declined, and recovered during their data reuse experiences. These various stages reflect the dynamic nature of trust."
229	Goodreads: A Social Network Site for Book Readers	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Goodreads is an Amazon-owned book-based social web site for members to share books, read, review books, rate books, and connect with other readers. Goodreads has tens of millions of book reviews, recommendations, and ratings that may help librarians and readers to select relevant books. This article describes a first investigation of the properties of Goodreads users, using a random sample of 50,000 members. The results suggest that about three quarters of members with a public profile are female, and that there is little difference between male and female users in patterns of behavior, except for females registering more books and rating them less positively. Goodreads librarians and super-users engage extensively with most features of the site. The absence of strong correlations between book-based and social usage statistics (e.g., numbers of friends, followers, books, reviews, and ratings) suggests that members choose their own individual balance of social and book activities and rarely ignore one at the expense of the other. Goodreads is therefore neither primarily a book-based website nor primarily a social network site but is a genuine hybrid, social navigation site."
230	Which Type of Citation Analysis Generates the Most Accurate Taxonomy of Scientific and Technical Knowledge?	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In 1965, Price foresaw the day when a citation-based taxonomy of science and technology would be delineated and correspondingly used for science policy. A taxonomy needs to be comprehensive and accurate if it is to be useful for policy making, especially now that policy makers are utilizing citation-based indicators to evaluate people, institutions and laboratories. Determining the accuracy of a taxonomy, however, remains a challenge. Previous work on the accuracy of partition solutions is sparse, and the results of those studies, although useful, have not been definitive. In this study we compare the accuracies of topic-level taxonomies based on the clustering of documents using direct citation, bibliographic coupling, and co-citation. Using a set of new gold standards-articles with at least 100 references- we find that direct citation is better at concentrating references than either bibliographic coupling or co-citation. Using the assumption that higher concentrations of references denote more accurate clusters, direct citation thus provides a more accurate representation of the taxonomy of scientific and technical knowledge than either bibliographic coupling or co-citation. We also find that discipline-level taxonomies based on journal schema are highly inaccurate compared to topic-level taxonomies, and recommend against their use."
231	"Funding Data from Publication Acknowledgments: Coverage, Uses, and Limitations"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article contributes to the development of methods for analysing research funding systems by exploring the robustness and comparability of emerging approaches to generate funding landscapes useful for policy making. We use a novel data set of manually extracted and coded data on the funding acknowledgements of 7,510 publications representing UK cancer research in the year 2011 and compare these ""reference data"" with funding data provided by Web of Science (WoS) and MEDLINE/PubMed. Findings show high recall (around 93%) of WoS funding data. By contrast, MEDLINE/ PubMed data retrieved less than half of the UK cancer publications acknowledging at least one funder. Conversely, both databases have high precision (+90%): That is, few cases of publications with no acknowledgment to funders are identified as having funding data. Nonetheless, funders acknowledged in UK cancer publications were not correctly listed by MEDLINE/PubMed and WoS in around 75% and 32% of the cases, respectively. Reference data on the UK cancer research funding system are used as a case study to demonstrate the utility of funding data for strategic intelligence applications (e.g., mapping of funding landscape and co-funding activity, comparison of funders' research portfolios)."
232	Publication Boost in Web of Science Journals and Its Effect on Citation Distributions	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In this article, we show that the dramatic increase in the number of research articles indexed in the Web of Science database impacts the commonly observed distributions of citations within these articles. First, we document that the growing number of physics articles in recent years is attributed to existing journals publishing more and more articles rather than more new journals coming into being as it happens in computer science. Second, even though the references from the more recent articles generally cover a longer time span, the newer articles are cited more frequently than the older ones if the uneven article growth is not corrected for. Nevertheless, despite this change in the distribution of citations, the citation behavior of scientists does not seem to have changed."
233	"Co-word Maps and Topic Modeling: A Comparison Using Small and Medium-Sized Corpora (N < 1,000)"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Induced by ""big data,"" ""topic modeling"" has become an attractive alternative to mapping co-words in terms of co-occurrences and co-absences using network techniques. Does topic modeling provide an alternative for co-word mapping in research practices using moderately sized document collections? We return to the word/document matrix using first a single text with a strong argument ("" The Leiden Manifesto"") and then upscale to a sample of moderate size (n = 5687) to study the pros and cons of the two approaches in terms of the resulting possibilities for making semantic maps that can serve an argument. The results from co-wordmapping (using two different routines) versus topic modeling are significantly uncorrelated. Whereas components in the co-word maps can easily be designated, the topic models provide sets of words that are very differently organized. In these samples, the topic models seem to reveal similarities other than semantic ones (e.g., linguistic ones). In other words, topic modeling does not replace co-word mapping in small and medium-sized sets; but the paper leaves open the possibility that topic modeling would work well for the semantic mapping of large sets."
234	Is Collaboration Among Scientists Related to the Citation Impact of Papers Because Their Quality Increases With Collaboration? An Analysis Based on Data From F1000Prime and Normalized Citation Scores	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In recent years, the relationship of collaboration among scientists and the citation impact of papers have been frequently investigated. Most of the studies show that the two variables are closely related: An increasing collaboration activity (measured in terms of number of authors, number of affiliations, and number of countries) is associated with an increased citation impact. However, it is not clear whether the increased citation impact is based on the higher quality of papers that profit from more than one scientist giving expert input or other (citation-specific) factors. Thus, the current study addresses this question by using two comprehensive data sets with publications (in the biomedical area) including quality assessments by experts (F1000Prime member scores) and citation data for the publications. The study is based on more than 15,000 papers. Robust regression models are used to investigate the relationship between number of authors, number of affiliations, and number of countries, respectively, and citation impact-controlling for the papers' quality (measured by F1000Prime expert ratings). The results point out that the effect of collaboration activities on impact is largely independent of the papers' quality. The citation advantage is apparently not quality related; citation-specific factors (e.g., self-citations) seem to be important here."
235	Metrics for Openness	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The characterization of scholarly communication is dominated by citation-based measures. In this paper we propose several metrics to describe different facets of open access and open research. We discuss measures to represent the public availability of articles along with their archival location, licenses, access costs, and supporting information. Calculations illustrating these new metrics are presented using the authors' publications. We argue that explicit measurement of openness is necessary for a holistic description of research outputs."
236	Relative Citation Ratio (RCR): An Empirical Attempt to Study a New Field-Normalized Bibliometric Indicator	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Hutchins, Yuan, Anderson, and Santangelo (2015) proposed the Relative Citation Ratio (RCR) as a new field-normalized impact indicator. This study investigates the RCR by correlating it on the level of single publications with established field-normalized indicators and assessments of the publications by peers. We find that the RCR correlates highly with established field-normalized indicators, but the correlation between RCR and peer assessments is only low to medium."
237	The influence of diversity and experience on the effects of crowd size	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"One advantage of crowds over traditional teams is that crowds enable the assembling of a large number of individuals to address problems. The literature is unclear, however, about the relationship between the size of crowds and its impact on outcomes. To better understand the effects of crowd size we conducted a study on the retention and performance based on 4,317 articles in the WikiProject Film community. Our results suggest that crowds benefit from their size when they are diverse, experienced, and have low retention rates."
238	Time-based tags for fiction movies: comparing experts to novices using a video labeling game	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The cultural heritage sector has embraced social tagging as a way to increase both access to online content and to engage users with their digital collections. In this article, we build on two current lines of research. (a) We use Waisda?, an existing labeling game, to add timebased annotations to content. (b) In this context, we investigate the role of experts in human-based computation (nichesourcing). We report on a small-scale experiment in which we applied Waisda? to content from film archives. We study the differences in the type of timebased tags between experts and novices for film clips in a crowdsourcing setting. The findings show high similarity in the number and type of tags (mostly factual). In the less frequent tags, however, experts used more domain-specific terms. We conclude that competitive games are not suited to elicit real expert-level descriptions. We also confirm that providing guidelines, based on conceptual frameworks that are more suited to moving images in a time-based fashion, could result in increasing the quality of the tags, thus allowing for creating more tag-based innovative services for online audiovisual heritage."
239	Impact in interdisciplinary and cross-sector research: Opportunities and challenges	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Impact is embedded in today's research culture, with increasing importance being placed on the value of research to society. In interdisciplinary and cross-sector projects, team members may hold distinct views on the types of impact they want to create. Set in the context of an interdisciplinary, cross-sector project comprised of partners from academia, industry, and the nonprofit sector, our paper unpacks how these diverse project members understand impact. Our analysis shows that interdisciplinary projects offer a unique opportunity to create impact on a number of different levels. Moreover, it demonstrates that a lack of accountable design and collaboration practices can potentially hinder pathways to impact. Finally, we find that the interdisciplinary perspectives that such projects introduce encourage a rich gamut of sustainable outcomes that go beyond commercialization. Our findings support researchers working in these complex contexts to appreciate the opportunities and challenges involved in interdisciplinary cross-sector research contexts while imparting them with strategies for overcoming these challenges."
240	Measuring technological distance for patent mapping	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Recent works in the information science literature have presented cases of using patent databases and patent classification information to construct network maps of technology fields, which aim to aid in competitive intelligence analysis and innovation decision making. Constructing such a patent network requires a proper measure of the distance between different classes of patents in the patent classification systems. Despite the existence of various distance measures in the literature, it is unclear how to consistently assess and compare them, and which ones to select for constructing patent technology network maps. This ambiguity has limited the development and applications of such technology maps. Herein, we propose to compare alternative distance measures and identify the superior ones by analyzing the differences and similarities in the structural properties of resulting patent network maps. Using United States patent data from 1976 to 2006 and the International Patent Classification (IPC) system, we compare 12 representative distance measures, which quantify interfield knowledge base proximity, field-crossing diversification likelihood or frequency of innovation agents, and co-occurrences of patent classes in the same patents. Our comparative analyses suggest the patent technology network maps based on normalized coreference and inventor diversification likelihood measures are the best representatives."
241	"Dimensions of trust in scholarly communication: Problematizing peer review in the aftermath of John Bohannon's ""Sting"" in science"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study investigates online material published in reaction to a Science Magazine report showing the absence of peer-review and editorial processes in a set of fee-charging open access journals in biology. Quantitative and qualitative textual analyses are combined to map conceptual relations in these reactions, and to explore how understandings of scholarly communication and publishing relate to specific conceptualizations of science and of the hedging of scientific knowledge. A discussion of the connection of trust and scientific knowledge and of the role of peer review for establishing and communicating this connection provides for the theoretical and topical framing. Special attention is paid to the pervasiveness of digital technologies in formal scholarly communication processes. Three dimensions of trust are traced in the material analyzed: (a) trust through personal experience and informal knowledge, (b) trust through organized, internal control, (c) trust through form. The article concludes by discussing how certain understandings of the conditions for trust in science are challenged by perceptions of possibilities for deceit in digital environments."
242	"ResearchGate articles: Age, discipline, audience size, and impact"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The large multidisciplinary academic social website ResearchGate aims to help academics to connect with each other and to publicize their work. Despite its popularity, little is known about the age and discipline of the articles uploaded and viewed in the site and whether publication statistics from the site could be useful impact indicators. In response, this article assesses samples of ResearchGate articles uploaded at specific dates, comparing their views in the site to their Mendeley readers and Scopus-indexed citations. This analysis shows that ResearchGate is dominated by recent articles, which attract about three times as many views as older articles. ResearchGate has uneven coverage of scholarship, with the arts and humanities, health professions, and decision sciences poorly represented and some fields receiving twice as many views per article as others. View counts for uploaded articles have low to moderate positive correlations with both Scopus citations and Mendeley readers, which is consistent with them tending to reflect a wider audience than Scopus-publishing scholars. Hence, for articles uploaded to the site, view counts may give a genuinely new audience indicator."
243	The Social Informatics of Ignorance	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Social informatics researchers use a variety of techniques to explore the intersections between technology and society. Current interest has turned to making more explicit our commonly tacit knowledge processes that involve people and technology. Knowledge creation, sharing, and management processes are commonly hidden, and this is even more the case regarding ignorance processes such as the denial and obfuscation of knowledge. Understanding the construction, generation, and perpetuation of ignorance can: (i) provide insights into social phenomena that might otherwise seem inexplicable (for instance, persistence of ""urban myths""), and (ii) enable development of interventions to either facilitate (as with privacy-sensitive material) or combat (as with malicious disinformation) ignorance. Although several pressing information issues relate to ignorance, agnotology (the study of ignorance) has only recently entered into the information science literature. An agnotologic approach expands the repertoire of methods and approaches in social informatics, better enabling the field to grapple with pressing contemporary issues of mis/dis/lack of information. Using Robert Proctor's typology of constructions of ignorance, this article describes ways that each type may be germane to and within social informatics, highlighting social informatics topics that would benefit from agnotologic exploration, and suggesting theoretical and methodological approaches useful to a social informatics of ignorance."
244	The personal information sphere: An integral approach to privacy and related information and communication rights	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Data protection laws, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, regulate aspects of online personalization. However, the data protection lens is too narrow to analyze personalization. To define conditions for personalization, we should understand data protection in its larger fundamental rights context, starting with the closely connected right to privacy. If the right to privacy is considered along with other European fundamental rights that protect information and communication flows, namely, communications confidentiality; the right to receive information; and freedom of expression, opinion, and thought, these rights are observed to enable what I call a ""personal information sphere"" for each person. This notion highlights how privacy interferences affect other fundamental rights. The personal information sphere is grounded in European case law and is thus not just an academic affair. The essence of the personal information sphere is control, yet with a different meaning than mere control as guaranteed by data protection law. The personal information sphere is about people controlling how they situate themselves in information and communication networks. It follows that, to respect privacy and related rights, online personalization providers should actively involve users in the personalization process and enable them to use personalization for personal goals."
245	The Societal Responsibilities of Computational Modelers: Human Values and Professional Codes of Ethics	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Information and communication technology (ICT) has increasingly important implications for our everyday lives, with the potential to both solve existing social problems and create new ones. This article focuses on one particular group of ICT professionals, computational modelers, and explores how these ICT professionals perceive their own societal responsibilities. Specifically, the article uses a mixed-method approach to look at the role of professional codes of ethics and explores the relationship between modelers' experiences with, and attitudes toward, codes of ethics and their values. Statistical analysis of survey data reveals a relationship between modelers' values and their attitudes and experiences related to codes of ethics. Thematic analysis of interviews with a subset of survey participants identifies two key themes: that modelers should be faithful to the reality and values of users and that codes of ethics should be built from the bottom up. One important implication of the research is that those who value universalism and benevolence may have a particular duty to act on their values and advocate for, and work to develop, a code of ethics."
246	Information Exchange on an Academic Social Networking Site: A Multidiscipline Comparison on ResearchGate Q&A	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The increasing popularity of academic social networking sites (ASNSs) requires studies on the usage of ASNSs among scholars and evaluations of the effectiveness of these ASNSs. However, it is unclear whether current ASNSs have fulfilled their design goal, as scholars' actual online interactions on these platforms remain unexplored. To fill the gap, this article presents a study based on data collected from ResearchGate. Adopting a mixed-method design by conducting qualitative content analysis and statistical analysis on 1,128 posts collected from ResearchGate Q&A, we examine how scholars exchange information and resources, and how their practices vary across three distinct disciplines: library and information services, history of art, and astrophysics. Our results show that the effect of a questioner's intention (i.e., seeking information or discussion) is greater than disciplinary factors in some circumstances. Across the three disciplines, responses to questions provide various resources, including experts' contact details, citations, links to Wikipedia, images, and so on. We further discuss several implications of the understanding of scholarly information exchange and the design of better academic social networking interfaces, which should stimulate scholarly interactions by minimizing confusion, improving the clarity of questions, and promoting scholarly content management."
247	An Empirical Look at the Nature Index	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In November 2014, the Nature Index (NI) was introduced (see http://www.natureindex.com) by the Nature Publishing Group (NPG). The NI comprises the primary research articles published in the past 12 months in a selection of reputable journals. Starting from two short comments on the NI (Haunschild & Bornmann, 2015a, 2015b), we undertake an empirical analysis of the NI using comprehensive country data. We investigate whether the huge efforts of computing the NI are justified and whether the size-dependent NI indicators should be complemented by size-independent variants. The analysis uses data from the Max Planck Digital Library in-house database (which is based on Web of Science data) and from the NPG. In the first step of the analysis, we correlate the NI with other metrics that are simpler to generate than the NI. The resulting large correlation coefficients point out that the NI produces similar results as simpler solutions. In the second step of the analysis, relative and size-independent variants of the NI are generated that should be additionally presented by the NPG. The size-dependent NI indicators favor large countries (or institutions) and the top-performing small countries (or institutions) do not come into the picture."
248	Exploring Interdisciplinary Relationships Between Linguistics and Information Retrieval From the 1960s to Today	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article explores how linguistics has influenced information retrieval (IR) and attempts to explain the impact of linguistics through an analysis of internal developments in information science generally, and IR in particular. It notes that information science/IR has been evolving from a case science into a fully fledged, ""disciplined""/disciplinary science. The article establishes correspondences between linguistics and information science/IR using the three established IR paradigms-physical, cognitive, and computational-as a frame of reference. The current relationship between information science/IR and linguistics is elucidated through discussion of some recent information science publications dealing with linguistic topics and a novel technique, ""keyword collocation analysis,"" is introduced. Insights from interdisciplinarity research and case theory are also discussed. It is demonstrated that the three stages of interdisciplinarity, namely multidisciplinarity, interdisciplinarity (in the narrow sense), and transdisciplinarity, can be linked to different phases of the information science/IR-linguistics relationship and connected to different ways of using linguistic theory in information science and IR."
249	We're being tracked at all times: Student perspectives of their privacy in relation to learning analytics in higher education	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Higher education institutions are continuing to develop their capacity for learning analytics (LA), which is a sociotechnical data-mining and analytic practice. Institutions rarely inform their students about LA practices, and there exist significant privacy concerns. Without a clear student voice in the design of LA, institutions put themselves in an ethical gray area. To help fill this gap in practice and add to the growing literature on students' privacy perspectives, this study reports findings from over 100 interviews with undergraduate students at eight U.S. higher education institutions. Findings demonstrate that students lacked awareness of educational data-mining and analytic practices, as well as the data on which they rely. Students see potential in LA, but they presented nuanced arguments about when and with whom data should be shared; they also expressed why informed consent was valuable and necessary. The study uncovered perspectives on institutional trust that were heretofore unknown, as well as what actions might violate that trust. Institutions must balance their desire to implement LA with their obligation to educate students about their analytic practices and treat them as partners in the design of analytic strategies reliant on student data in order to protect their intellectual privacy."
250	Scientific journals still matter in the era of academic search engines and preprint archives	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Journals play a critical role in the scientific process because they evaluate the quality of incoming papers and offer an organizing filter for search. However, the role of journals has been called into question because new preprint archives and academic search engines make it easier to find articles independent of the journals that publish them. Research on this issue is complicated by the deeply confounded relationship between article quality and journal reputation. We present an innovative proxy for individual article quality that is divorced from the journal's reputation or impact factor: the number of citations to preprints posted on . Using this measure to study three subfields of physics that were early adopters of arXiv, we show that prior estimates of the effect of journal reputation on an individual article's impact (measured by citations) are likely inflated. While we find that higher-quality preprints in these subfields are now less likely to be published in journals compared to prior years, we find little systematic evidence that the role of journal reputation on article performance has declined."
251	Examining scientific writing styles from the perspective of linguistic complexity	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Publishing articles in high-impact English journals is difficult for scholars around the world, especially for non-native English-speaking scholars (NNESs), most of whom struggle with proficiency in English. To uncover the differences in English scientific writing between native English-speaking scholars (NESs) and NNESs, we collected a large-scale data set containing more than 150,000 full-text articles published in PLoS between 2006 and 2015. We divided these articles into three groups according to the ethnic backgrounds of the first and corresponding authors, obtained by Ethnea, and examined the scientific writing styles in English from a two-fold perspective of linguistic complexity: (a) syntactic complexity, including measurements of sentence length and sentence complexity; and (b) lexical complexity, including measurements of lexical diversity, lexical density, and lexical sophistication. The observations suggest marginal differences between groups in syntactical and lexical complexity."
252	Re-situating information poverty: Information marginalization and parents of individuals with disabilities	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article outlines a constructivist grounded theory (Charmaz, 2014) study of information poverty among a group of mothers of individuals with Down syndrome and/or Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) from a critical perspective, drawing on concepts from critical disability theory, critical race theory, and critical work within information and library science. The researchers gathered interview data from 24 mothers. Resulting data were inductively analyzed using Chatman's (1996) theory of information poverty. We propose information marginalization as a complimentary concept to describe the contextual conditions that contribute to a range of defensive information behaviors and suggest that assessment of these contextual conditions be a part of the system design process. This study has implications for the development and design of systems and service models intended to provide access to information and services for individuals with disability and contributes to a critical literature on information poverty."
253	Identifying author heritage using surname data: An application for Russian surnames	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This research article puts forward a method to identify the national heritage of authors based on the morphology of their surnames. Most studies in the field use variants of dictionary-based surname methods to identify ethnic communities, an approach that suffers from methodological limitations. Using the public file of ORCID (Open Researcher and Contributor ID) identifiers in 2015, we developed a surname-based identification method and applied it to infer Russian heritage from suffix-based morphological regularities. The method was developed conceptually and tested in an undersampled control set. Identification based on surname morphology was then complemented by using first-name data to eliminate false-positive results. The method achieved 98% precision and 94% recall rates-superior to most other methods that use name data. The procedure can be adapted to identify the heritage of a variety of national groups with morphologically regular naming traditions. We elaborate on how the method can be employed to overcome long-standing limitations of using name data in bibliometric datasets. This identification method can contribute to advancing research in scientific mobility and migration, patenting by certain groups, publishing and collaboration, transnational and scientific diaspora links, and the effects of diversity on the innovative performance of organizations, regions, and countries."
254	Do citation chimeras exist? The case of under-cited influential articles suffering delayed recognition	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In this study we investigate if articles suffering delayed recognition can at the same time be under-cited influential articles. Theoretically these two types of articles are independent, in the sense that suffering delayed recognition depends on the number and time distribution of received citations, while being an under-cited influential article depends only partially on the number of received (first generation) citations, and much more on second and third citation generations. Among 49 articles suffering delayed recognition we found 13 that are also under-cited influential. Based on a thorough investigation of these special cases we found that so-called authoritative citers play an important role in uniting the two different document types into a special citation chimera. Our investigation contributes to the classification of publications."
255	Statistical significance and effect sizes of differences among research universities at the level of nations and worldwide based on the leiden rankings	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The Leiden Rankings can be used for grouping research universities by considering universities which are not statistically significantly different as homogeneous sets. The groups and intergroup relations can be analyzed and visualized using tools from network analysis. Using the so-called ""excellence indicator"" PPtop-10%-the proportion of the top-10% most-highly-cited papers assigned to a university-we pursue a classification using (a) overlapping stability intervals, (b) statistical-significance tests, and (c) effect sizes of differences among 902 universities in 54 countries; we focus on the UK, Germany, Brazil, and the USA as national examples. Although the groupings remain largely the same using different statistical significance levels or overlapping stability intervals, these classifications are uncorrelated with those based on effect sizes. Effect sizes for the differences between universities are small (w < .2). The more detailed analysis of universities at the country level suggests that distinctions beyond three or perhaps four groups of universities (high, middle, low) may not be meaningful. Given similar institutional incentives, isomorphism within each eco-system of universities should not be underestimated. Our results suggest that networks based on overlapping stability intervals can provide a first impression of the relevant groupings among universities. However, the clusters are not well-defined divisions between groups of universities."
256	Motivations for self-archiving on an academic social networking site: A study on researchgate	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This study investigates motivations for self-archiving research items on academic social networking sites (ASNSs). A model of these motivations was developed based on two existing motivation models: motivation for self-archiving in academia and motivations for information sharing in social media. The proposed model is composed of 18 factors drawn from personal, social, professional, and external contexts, including enjoyment, personal/professional gain, reputation, learning, self-efficacy, altruism, reciprocity, trust, community interest, social engagement, publicity, accessibility, self-archiving culture, influence of external actors, credibility, system stability, copyright concerns, additional time, and effort. Two hundred and twenty-six ResearchGate users participated in the survey. Accessibility was the most highly rated factor, followed by altruism, reciprocity, trust, self-efficacy, reputation, publicity, and others. Personal, social, and professional factors were also highly rated, while external factors were rated relatively low. Motivations were correlated with one another, demonstrating that RG motivations for self-archiving could increase or decrease based on several factors in combination with motivations from the personal, social, professional, and external contexts. We believe the findings from this study can increase our understanding of users' motivations in sharing their research and provide useful implications for the development and improvement of ASNS services, thereby attracting more active users."
257	Social Information as a Means to Enhance Engagement in Citizen Science-Based Telerehabilitation	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Advancements in computer-mediated exercise put forward the feasibility of telerehabilitation, but it remains a challenge to retain patients' engagement in exercises. Building on our previous study demonstrating enhanced engagement in citizen science through social information about others' contributions, we propose a novel framework for effective telerehabilitation that integrates citizen science and social information into physical exercise. We hypothesized that social information about others' contributions would augment engagement in physical activity by encouraging people to invest more effort toward discovery of novel information in a citizen science context. We recruited healthy participants to monitor the environment of a polluted canal by tagging images using a haptic device toward gathering environmental information. Along with the images, we displayed the locations of the tags created by the previous participants. We found that participants increased both the amount and duration of physical activity when presented with a larger number of the previous tags. Further, they increased the diversity of tagged objects by avoiding the locations tagged by the previous participants, thereby generating richer information about the environment. Our results suggest that social information is a viable means to augment engagement in rehabilitation exercise by incentivizing the contribution to scientific activities."
258	Documentation and access to knowledge in online communities: Know your audience and write appropriately?	2019	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Virtual collaborations bring together people who must work together despite having varied access to and understanding of the work at hand. In many cases, the collaborations are technology supported, meaning that the work is done through shared documents. We develop a framework articulating the characteristics of documents supporting collaborators with access to asymmetric knowledge versus those with access to symmetric knowledge. Drawing on theories about document genre, boundary objects, and provenance, we hypothesize that documents supporting asymmetric collaborators are likely to articulate or prescribe their own (a) purpose, (b) context of use, (c) content and form, and (d) provenance in greater detail than documents supporting symmetric collaborators. We explore these hypotheses through content analysis of documents and instructions for documents from a variety of free/libre open-source projects (FLOSS). We present findings consistent with the hypotheses developed as well as results extending beyond our theory-derived assumptions. When participants have access to the same knowledge, the study suggests that prescriptions about the content of documents become less important compared with prescriptions about the context, provenance, and process of work. The study contributes with a dynamic perspective on communicative practices that consider an often-uneven distribution of knowledge in virtual collaborations."
259	"Adding the Dimension of Knowledge Trading to Source Impact Assessment: Approaches, Indicators, and Implications"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The objective of this paper is to systematically assess sources' (e.g., journals and proceedings) impact in knowledge trading. While there have been efforts at evaluating different aspects of journal impact, the dimension of knowledge trading is largely absent. To fill the gap, this study employed a set of trading-based indicators, including weighted degree centrality, Shannon entropy, and weighted betweenness centrality, to assess sources' trading impact. These indicators were applied to several time-sliced source-to-source citation networks that comprise 33,634 sources indexed in the Scopus database. The results show that several interdisciplinary sources, such as Nature, PLoS One, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, and Science, and several specialty sources, such as Lancet, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Journal of the American Chemical Society, Journal of Biological Chemistry, and New England Journal of Medicine, have demonstrated their marked importance in knowledge trading. Furthermore, this study also reveals that, overall, sources have established more trading partners, increased their trading volumes, broadened their trading areas, and diversified their trading contents over the past 15 years from 1997 to 2011. These results inform the understanding of source-level impact assessment and knowledge diffusion."
260	A Note Concerning Primary Source Knowledge	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We present the results of running 4 different papers through the automated filtering system used by the open access preprint server ""arXiv"" to classify papers and implement quality control barriers. The exercise was carried out in order to assess whether these highly sophisticated, state-of-the-art filters can distinguish between papers that are controversial or have gone past their ""sell-by date,"" and otherwise normal papers. We conclude that not even the arXiv filters, which are otherwise successful in filtering fringe-topic papers, can fully acquire ""Domain-Specific Discrimination"" and thus distinguish technical papers that are taken seriously by an expert community from those that are not. Finally, we discuss the implications this has for citizen and policy-maker engagement with the Primary Source Knowledge of a technical domain."
261	Search Task Features in Work Tasks of Varying Types and Complexity	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Information searching in practice seldom is an end in itself. In work, work task (WT) performance forms the context, which information searching should serve. Therefore, information retrieval (IR) systems development/evaluation should take the WT context into account. The present paper analyzes how WT features: task complexity and task types, affect information searching in authentic work: the types of information needs, search processes, and search media. We collected data on 22 information professionals in authentic work situations in three organization types: city administration, universities, and companies. The data comprise 286 WTs and 420 search tasks (STs). The data include transaction logs, video recordings, daily questionnaires, interviews. and observation. The data were analyzed quantitatively. Even if the participants used a range of search media, most STs were simple throughout the data, and up to 42% of WTs did not include searching. WT's effects on STs are not straightforward: different WT types react differently to WT complexity. Due to the simplicity of authentic searching, the WT/ST types in interactive IR experiments should be reconsidered."
262	Analysis of Change in Users' Assessment of Search Results Over Time	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"We present the first systematic study of the influence of time on user judgements for rankings and relevance grades of web search engine results. The goal of this study is to evaluate the change in user assessment of search results and explore how users' judgements change. To this end, we conducted a large-scale user study with 86 participants who evaluated 2 different queries and 4 diverse result sets twice with an interval of 2 months. To analyze the results we investigate whether 2 types of patterns of user behavior from the theory of categorical thinking hold for the case of evaluation of search results: (a) coarseness and (b) locality. To quantify these patterns we devised 2 new measures of change in user judgements and distinguish between local (when users swap between close ranks and relevance values) and nonlocal changes. Two types of judgements were considered in this study: (a) relevance on a 4-point scale, and (b) ranking on a 10-point scale without ties. We found that users tend to change their judgements of the results over time in about 50% of cases for relevance and in 85% of cases for ranking. However, the majority of these changes were local."
263	Resonance and the experience of relevance	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In this article, I propose the concept of resonance as a useful one for describing what it means to experience relevance. Based on an extensive interdisciplinary review, I provide a novel framework that presents resonance as a spectrum of experience with a multitude of outcomes ranging from a sense of harmony and coherence to life transformation. I argue that resonance has different properties to the more traditional interpretation of relevance and provides a better system of explanation of what it means to experience relevance. I show how traditional approaches to relevance and resonance work in a complementary fashion and outline how resonance may present distinct new lines of research into relevance theory."
264	"Understanding Users of Cloud Music Services: Selection Factors, Management and Access Behavior, and Perceptions"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Recent, rapid changes in technology have resulted in a proliferation of choices for music storage and access. Portable, web-enabled music devices are widespread, and listeners now enjoy a plethora of options regarding formats, devices, and access methods. Yet in this mobile music environment, listeners' access and management strategies for music collections are poorly understood, because behaviors surrounding the organization and retrieval of music collections have received little formal study. Our current research seeks to enrich our knowledge of people's music listening and collecting behavior through a series of systematic user studies. In this paper we present our findings from interviews involving 20 adult and 20 teen users of commercial cloud music services. Our results contribute to theoretical understandings of users' music information behavior in a time of upheaval in music usage patterns, and more generally, the purposes and meanings users ascribe to personal media collections in cloud-based systems. The findings suggest improvements to the future design of cloud-based music services, as well as to any information systems and services designed for personal media collections, benefiting both commercial entities and listeners."
265	Academics' Behaviors and Attitudes Towards Open Access Publishing in Scholarly Journals	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"While there is significant progress with policy and a lively debate regarding the potential impact of open access publishing, few studies have examined academics' behavior and attitudes to open access publishing (OAP) in scholarly journals. This article seeks to address this gap through an international and interdisciplinary survey of academics. Issues covered include: use of and intentions regarding OAP, and perceptions regarding advantages and disadvantages of OAP, journal article publication services, peer review, and reuse. Despite reporting engagement in OAP, academics were unsure about their future intentions regarding OAP. Broadly, academics identified the potential for wider circulation as the key advantage of OAP, and were more positive about its benefits than they were negative about its disadvantages. As regards services, rigorous peer review, followed by rapid publication were most valued. Academics reported strong views on reuse of their work; they were relatively happy with noncommercial reuse, but not in favor of commercial reuse, adaptations, and inclusion in anthologies. Comparing science, technology, and medicine with arts, humanities, and social sciences showed a significant difference in attitude on a number of questions, but, in general, the effect size was small, suggesting that attitudes are relatively consistent across the academic community."
266	Book Genre and Author Gender: Romance > Paranormal-Romance to Autobiography > Memoir	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Although gender differences are known to exist in the publishing industry and in reader preferences, there is little public systematic data about them. This article uses evidence from the book-based social website Goodreads to provide a large scale analysis of 50 major English book genres based on author genders. The results show gender differences in authorship in almost all categories and gender differences the level of interest in, and ratings of, books in a minority of categories. Perhaps surprisingly in this context, there is not a clear gender-based relationship between the success of an author and their prevalence within a genre. The unexpected almost universal authorship gender differences should give new impetus to investigations of the importance of gender in fiction and the success of minority genders in some genres should encourage publishers and librarians to take their work seriously, except perhaps for most male-authored chick-lit."
267	Identification of Long-Term Concept-Symbols Among Citations: Do Common Intellectual Histories Structure Citation Behavior?	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Citation classics are not only highly cited, but also cited during several decades. We explore whether the peaks in the spectrograms generated by Reference Publication Years Spectroscopy (RPYS) indicate such long-term impact by comparing across RPYS for subsequent time intervals. Multi-RPYS enables us to distinguish between short-term citation peaks at the research front that decay within 10 years versus historically constitutive (long-term) citations that function as concept symbols. Using these constitutive citations, one is able to cluster document sets (e.g., journals) in terms of intellectually shared histories. We test this premise by clustering 40 journals in the Web of Science Category of Information and Library Science using multi-RPYS. It follows that RPYS can not only be used for retrieving roots of sets under study (cited), but also for algorithmic historiography of the citing sets. Significant references are historically rooted symbols among other citations that function as currency."
268	How Many Ways to Use CiteSpace? A Study of User Interactive Events Over 14 Months	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Using visual analytic systems effectively may incur a steep learning curve for users, especially for those who have little prior knowledge of either using the tool or accomplishing analytic tasks. How do users deal with a steep learning curve over time? Are there particularly problematic aspects of an analytic process? In this article we investigate these questions through an integrative study of the use of CiteSpacea visual analytic tool for finding trends and patterns in scientific literature. In particular, we analyze millions of interactive events in logs generated by users worldwide over a 14-month period. The key findings are: (i) three levels of proficiency are identified, namely, level 1: low proficiency, level 2: intermediate proficiency, and level 3: high proficiency, and (ii) behavioral patterns at level 3 are resulted from a more engaging interaction with the system, involving a wider variety of events and being characterized by longer state transition paths, whereas behavioral patterns at levels 1 and 2 seem to focus on learning how to use the tool. This study contributes to the development and evaluation of visual analytic systems in realistic settings and provides a valuable addition to the study of interactive visual analytic processes."
269	The Scaling Relationship Between Citation-Based Performance and Coauthorship Patterns in Natural Sciences	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The aim of this paper is to extend our knowledge about the power-law relationship between citation-based performance and coauthorship patterns in papers in the natural sciences. We analyzed 829,924 articles that received 16,490,346 citations. The number of articles published through coauthorship accounts for 89%. The citation-based performance and coauthorship patterns exhibit a power-law correlation with a scaling exponent of 1.20 +/- 0.07. Citations to a subfield's research articles tended to increase 2.(1.20) or 2.30 times each time it doubled the number of coauthored papers. The scaling exponent for the power-law relationship for single-authored papers was 0.85 +/- 0.11. The citations to a subfield's single-authored research articles increased 2.(0.85) or 1.89 times each time the research area doubled the number of single-authored papers. The Matthew Effect is stronger for coauthored papers than for single-authored. In fact, with a scaling exponent <1.0 the impact of single-authored papers exhibits a cumulative disadvantage or inverse Matthew Effect."
270	Citation Behavior: A Large-Scale Test of the Persuasion by Name-Dropping Hypothesis	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Citation frequencies are commonly interpreted as measures of quality or impact. Yet, the true nature of citations and their proper interpretation have been the center of a long, but still unresolved discussion in Bibliometrics. A comparison of 67,578 pairs of studies on the same healthcare topic, with the same publication age (1-15 years) reveals that when one of the studies is being selected for citation, it has on average received about three times as many citations as the other study. However, the average citation-gap between selected or deselected studies narrows slightly over time, which fits poorly with the name-dropping interpretation and better with the quality and impact-interpretation. The results demonstrate that authors in the field of Healthcare tend to cite highly cited documents when they have a choice. This is more likely caused by differences related to quality than differences related to status of the publications cited."
271	The Effect of Social Network Site Use on the Psychological Well-Being of Cancer Patients	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Social network sites (SNSs) are growing in popularity and social significance. Although researchers have attempted to explain the effect of SNS use on users' psychological well-being, previous studies have produced inconsistent results. In addition, most previous studies relied on healthy students as participants; other cohorts of SNSs users, in particular people living with serious health conditions, have been neglected. In this study, we carried out semistructured interviews with users of the Ovarian Cancer Australia (OCA) Facebook to assess how and in what ways SNS use impacts their psychological well-being. A theoretical model was proposed to develop a better understanding of the relationships between SNS use and the psychological well-being of cancer patients. Analysis of data collected through a subsequent quantitative survey confirmed the theoretical model and empirically revealed the extent to which SNS use impacts the psychological well-being of cancer patients. Findings showed the use of OCA Facebook enhances social support, enriches the experience of social connectedness, develops social presence and learning and ultimately improves the psychological well-being of cancer patients."
272	Heterogeneous couplings: Operationalizing network perspectives to study science-society interactions through social media metrics	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Social media metrics have a genuine networked nature, reflecting the networking characteristics of the social media platform from where they are derived. This networked nature has been relatively less explored in the literature on altmetrics, although new network-level approaches are starting to appear. A general conceptualization of the role of social media networks in science communication, and particularly of social media as a specific type of interface between science and society, is still missing. The aim of this paper is to provide a conceptual framework for appraising interactions between science and society in multiple directions, in what we call heterogeneous couplings. Heterogeneous couplings are conceptualized as the co-occurrence of science and non-science objects, actors, and interactions in online media environments. This conceptualization provides a common framework to study the interactions between science and non-science actors as captured via online and social media platforms. The conceptualization of heterogeneous couplings opens wider opportunities for the development of network applications and analyses of the interactions between societal and scholarly entities in social media environments, paving the way toward more advanced forms of altmetrics, social (media) studies of science, and the conceptualization and operationalization of more advanced science-society studies."
273	"Orthogonality, dependency, and music: An exploration of the relationships between music facets"	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The classification of Western art music is a complex area of knowledge organization, yet the reasons for those complexities have not been fully studied. This research dissects the concept of orthogonality, in particular regard to music classification. Orthogonality (antonym: dependency) means that one facet acts independently from another facet. Although orthogonality is an assumed quality of facets, it has attracted relatively little attention in knowledge organization discourse. This research utilizes bibliographic classification schemes, musicological writings, and musical works to analyze orthogonality in music classification. The relationships between the medium, form/genre, and function facets are unpicked and a strong dependency is found between these facets. Whether this orthogonality exists as a construct of faceted classification or stems from the domain knowledge is explored. Furthermore, the analysis initiates new thinking about the general concept of orthogonality. The idea of a spectrum of dependency is proposed. In addition, novel, orthogonality-derived phenomena are discussed-""dynamic facets"" and ""meta-dependency""-where the boundary between what is and is not a facet is blurred. The concluding model visualizes the chain of dependencies between music facets, ultimately showing how the lack of orthogonality plays a key role in the complexity and issues found in music classification."
274	Enhancing keyphrase extraction from microblogs using human reading time	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The premise of manual keyphrase annotation is to read the corresponding content of an annotated object. Intuitively, when we read, more important words will occupy a longer reading time. Hence, by leveraging human reading time, we can find the salient words in the corresponding content. However, previous studies on keyphrase extraction ignore human reading features. In this article, we aim to leverage human reading time to extract keyphrases from microblog posts. There are two main tasks in this study. One is to determine how to measure the time spent by a human on reading a word. We use eye fixation durations (FDs) extracted from an open source eye-tracking corpus. Moreover, we propose strategies to make eye FD more effective on keyphrase extraction. The other task is to determine how to integrate human reading time into keyphrase extraction models. We propose two novel neural network models. The first is a model in which the human reading time is used as the ground truth of the attention mechanism. In the second model, we use human reading time as the external feature. Quantitative and qualitative experiments show that our proposed models yield better performance than the baseline models on two microblog datasets."
275	Learning to cite framework: How to automatically construct citations for hierarchical data	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The practice of citation is foundational for the propagation of knowledge along with scientific development and it is one of the core aspects on which scholarship and scientific publishing rely. Within the broad context of data citation, we focus on the automatic construction of citations problem for hierarchically structured data. We present the learning to cite framework, which enables the automatic construction of human- and machine-readable citations with different levels of coarseness. The main goal is to reduce the human intervention on data to a minimum and to provide a citation system general enough to work on heterogeneous and complex XML data sets. We describe how this framework can be realized by a system for creating citations to single nodes within an XML data set and, as a use case, show how it can be applied in the context of digital archives. We conduct an extensive evaluation of the proposed citation system by analyzing its effectiveness from the correctness and completeness viewpoints, showing that it represents a suitable solution that can be easily employed in real-world environments and that reduces human intervention on data to a minimum."
276	Filtering patent maps for visualization of diversification paths of inventors and organizations	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"In the information science literature, recent studies have used patent databases and patent classification information to construct network maps of patent technology classes. In such a patent technology map, almost all pairs of technology classes are connected, whereas most of the connections between them are extremely weak. This observation suggests the possibility of filtering the patent network map by removing weak links. However, removing links may reduce the explanatory power of the network on inventor or organization diversification. The network links may explain the patent portfolio diversification paths of inventors and inventing organizations. We measure the diversification explanatory power of the patent network map, and present a method to objectively choose an optimal tradeoff between explanatory power and removing weak links. We show that this method can remove a degree of arbitrariness compared with previous filtering methods based on arbitrary thresholds, and also identify previous filtering methods that created filters outside the optimal tradeoff. The filtered map aims to aid in network visualization analyses of the technological diversification of inventors, organizations, and other innovation agents, and potential foresight analysis. Such applications to a prolific inventor (Leonard Forbes) and company (Google) are demonstrated."
277	Comparing grounded theory and topic modeling: Extreme divergence or unlikely convergence?	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Researchers in information science and related areas have developed various methods for analyzing textual data, such as survey responses. This article describes the application of analysis methods from two distinct fields, one method from interpretive social science and one method from statistical machine learning, to the same survey data. The results show that the two analyses produce some similar and some complementary insights about the phenomenon of interest, in this case, nonuse of social media. We compare both the processes of conducting these analyses and the results they produce to derive insights about each method's unique advantages and drawbacks, as well as the broader roles that these methods play in the respective fields where they are often used. These insights allow us to make more informed decisions about the tradeoffs in choosing different methods for analyzing textual data. Furthermore, this comparison suggests ways that such methods might be combined in novel and compelling ways."
278	Whither wilderness? An investigation of technology use by long-distance backpackers	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The popular outdoor pursuit of backpacking is profoundly changing as the community embraces contemporary information technologies. However, there is little empirical evidence on the adoption and use of consumer electronics by backpackers, nor the implications this has for their habits, practices, and interactions. We investigate long-distance backpackers' articulations with mobile information technology during the TGO Challenge, a coast-to-coast crossing of the Scottish Highlands. By employing mixed methods, we explore how and why backpackers use such technology when planning and undertaking their journeys via a survey (n = 116), pre- and post-challenge interviews with selected TGO participants, and daily in-field video-logs. Our results suggest many advantages to using technology in this context, including fluidity of communications and access, while noting that reliance on technology is leading to issues such as increased need for battery power management, and deskilling. The findings highlight implications for the juxtaposition between outdoor recreation, information behavior, and human computer interaction (HCI) and suggest future work in this area."
279	Ontology for cultural variations in interpersonal communication: Building on theoretical models and crowdsourced knowledge	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The domain of cultural variations in interpersonal communication is becoming increasingly important in various areas, including human-human interaction (e.g., business settings) and human-computer interaction (e.g., during simulations, or with social robots). User-generated content (UGC) in social media can provide an invaluable source of culturally diverse viewpoints for supporting the understanding of cultural variations. However, discovering and organizing UGC is notoriously challenging and laborious for humans, especially in ill-defined domains such as culture. This calls for computational approaches to automate the UGC sensemaking process by using tagging, linking, and exploring. Semantic technologies allow automated structuring and qualitative analysis of UGC, but are dependent on the availability of an ontology representing the main concepts in a specific domain. For the domain of cultural variations in interpersonal communication, no ontological model exists. This paper presents the first such ontological model, called AMOn+, which defines cultural variations and enables tagging culture-related mentions in textual content. AMOn+ is designed based on a novel interdisciplinary approach that combines theoretical models of culture with crowdsourced knowledge (DBpedia). An evaluation of AMOn+ demonstrated its fitness-for-purpose regarding domain coverage for annotating culture-related concepts mentioned in text corpora. This ontology can underpin computational models for making sense of UGC."
280	Insight Workflow: Systematically Combining Human and Computational Methods to Explore Textual Data	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Analyzing large quantities of real-world textual data has the potential to provide new insights for researchers. However, such data present challenges for both human and computational methods, requiring a diverse range of specialist skills, often shared across a number of individuals. In this paper we use the analysis of a real-world data set as our case study, and use this exploration as a demonstration of our insight workflow, which we present for use and adaptation by other researchers. The data we use are impact case study documents collected as part of the UK Research Excellence Framework (REF), consisting of 6,679 documents and 6.25 million words; the analysis was commissioned by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (published as report HEFCE 2015). In our exploration and analysis we used a variety of techniques, ranging from keyword in context and frequency information to more sophisticated methods (topic modeling), with these automated techniques providing an empirical point of entry for in-depth and intensive human analysis. We present the 60 topics to demonstrate the output of our methods, and illustrate how the variety of analysis techniques can be combined to provide insights. We note potential limitations and propose future work."
281	Attitudes of Referees in a Multidisciplinary Journal: An Empirical Analysis	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This paper looks at 10 years of reviews in a multidisciplinary journal, The Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation (JASSS), which is the flagship journal of social simulation. We measured referee behavior and referees' agreement. We found that the disciplinary background and the academic status of the referee have an influence on the report time, the type of recommendation and the acceptance of the reviewing task. Referees from the humanities tend to be more generous in their recommendations than other referees, especially economists and environmental scientists. Second, we found that senior researchers are harsher in their judgments than junior researchers, and the latter accept requests to review more often and are faster in reporting. Finally, we found that articles that had been refereed and recommended for publication by a multidisciplinary set of referees were subsequently more likely to receive citations than those that had been reviewed by referees from the same discipline. Our results show that common standards of evaluation can be established even in multidisciplinary communities."
282	Lotka's Inverse Square Law of Scientific Productivity: Its Methods and Statistics	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	This brief communication analyzes the statistics and methods Lotka used to derive his inverse square law of scientific productivity from the standpoint of modern theory. It finds that he violated the norms of this theory by extremely truncating his data on the right. It also proves that Lotka himself played an important role in establishing the commonly used method of identifying power-law behavior by the R-2 fit to a regression line on a log-log plot that modern theory considers unreliable by basing the derivation of his law on this very method.
283	Discrete Power Law With Exponential Cutoff and Lotka's Law	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"One of the first bibliometric laws appeared in Alfred J. Lotka's 1926 examination of author productivity in chemistry and physics. The result was a productivity distribution described by a power law. In this paper, Lotka's original data on author productivity in chemistry are reconsidered. We define a discrete power law with exponential cutoff, test Lotka's data, and compare the fit to the discrete power law."
284	Automated Analysis of Actor-Topic Networks on Twitter: New Approaches to the Analysis of Socio-Semantic Networks	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Social media data provide increasing opportunities for the automated analysis of large sets of textual documents. So far, automated tools have been developed either to account for the social networks among participants in the debates, or to analyze the content of these debates. Less attention has been paid to mapping co-occurrences of actors (participants) and topics (content) in online debates that can be considered as socio-semantic networks. We propose a new, automated approach that uses the whole matrix of co-addressed topics and actors for understanding and visualizing online debates. We show the advantages of the new approach with the analysis of two data sets: first, a large set of English-language Twitter messages at the Rio + 20 meeting, in June 2012 (72,077 tweets), and second, a smaller data set of Dutch-language Twitter messages on bird flu related to poultry farming in 2015-2017 (2,139 tweets). We discuss the theoretical, methodological, and substantive implications of our approach, also for the analysis of other social media data."
285	Early Detection of Heterogeneous Disaster Events Using Social Media	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"This article addresses the problem of detecting crisis-related messages on social media, in order to improve the situational awareness of emergency services. Previous work focused on developing machine-learning classifiers restricted to specific disasters, such as storms or wild-fires. We investigate for the first time methods to detect such messages where the type of the crisis is not known in advance, that is, the data are highly heterogeneous. Data heterogeneity causes significant difficulties for learning algorithms to generalize and accurately label incoming data. Our main contributions are as follows. First, we evaluate the extent of this problem in the context of disaster management, finding that the performance of traditional learners drops by up to 40% when trained and tested on heterogeneous data vis-a-vis homogeneous data. Then, in order to overcome data heterogeneity, we propose a new ensemble learning method, and found this to perform on a par with the Gradient Boosting and AdaBoost ensemble learners. The methods are studied on a benchmark data set comprising 26 disaster events and four classification problems: detection of relevant messages, informative messages, eyewitness reports, and topical classification of messages. Finally, in a case study, we evaluate the proposed methods on a real-world data set to assess its practical value."
286	The Design and Use of Assessment Frameworks in Digital Curation	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"To understand and improve their current abilities and maturity, organizations use diagnostic instruments such as maturity models and other assessment frameworks. Increasing numbers of these are being developed in digital curation. Their central role in strategic decision making raises the need to evaluate their fitness for this purpose and develop guidelines for their design and evaluation. A comprehensive review of assessment frameworks, however, found little evidence that existing assessment frameworks have been evaluated systematically, and no methods for their evaluation. This article proposes a new methodology for evaluating the design and use of assessment frameworks. It builds on prior research on maturity models and combines analytic and empirical evaluation methods to explain how the design of assessment frameworks influences their application in practice, and how the design process can effectively take this into account. We present the evaluation methodology and its application to two frameworks. The evaluation results lead to guidelines for the design process of assessment frameworks in digital curation. The methodology provides insights to the designers of the evaluated frameworks that they can consider in future revisions; methodical guidance for researchers in the field; and practical insights and words of caution to organizations keen on diagnosing their abilities."
287	Using Score Distributions to Compare Statistical Significance Tests for Information Retrieval Evaluation	2020	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Statistical significance tests can provide evidence that the observed difference in performance between 2 methods is not due to chance. In information retrieval (IR), some studies have examined the validity and suitability of such tests for comparing search systems. We argue here that current methods for assessing the reliability of statistical tests suffer from some methodological weaknesses, and we propose a novel way to study significance tests for retrieval evaluation. Using Score Distributions, we model the output of multiple search systems, produce simulated search results from such models, and compare them using various significance tests. A key strength of this approach is that we assess statistical tests under perfect knowledge about the truth or falseness of the null hypothesis. This new method for studying the power of significance tests in IR evaluation is formal and innovative. Following this type of analysis, we found that both the sign test and Wilcoxon signed test have more power than the permutation test and the t-test. The sign test and Wilcoxon signed test also have good behavior in terms of type I errors. The bootstrap test shows few type I errors, but it has less power than the other methods tested."
288	"News stories as evidence for research? BBC citations from articles, Books, and Wikipedia"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Although news stories target the general public and are sometimes inaccurate, they can serve as sources of real-world information for researchers. This article investigates the extent to which academics exploit journalism using content and citation analyses of online BBC News stories cited by Scopus articles. A total of 27,234 Scopus-indexed publications have cited at least one BBC News story, with a steady annual increase. Citations from the arts and humanities (2.8% of publications in 2015) and social sciences (1.5%) were more likely than citations from medicine (0.1%) and science (<0.1%). Surprisingly, half of the sampled Scopus-cited science and technology (53%) and medicine and health (47%) stories were based on academic research, rather than otherwise unpublished information, suggesting that researchers have chosen a lower-quality secondary source for their citations. Nevertheless, the BBC News stories that were most frequently cited by Scopus, Google Books, and Wikipedia introduced new information from many different topics, including politics, business, economics, statistics, and reports about events. Thus, news stories are mediating real-world knowledge into the academic domain, a potential cause for concern."
289	Scientific Evolutionary Pathways: Identifying and Visualizing Relationships for Scientific Topics	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Whereas traditional science maps emphasize citation statistics and static relationships, this paper presents a term-based method to identify and visualize the evolutionary pathways of scientific topics in a series of time slices. First, we create a data preprocessing model for accurate term cleaning, consolidating, and clustering. Then we construct a simulated data streaming function and introduce a learning process to train a relationship identification function to adapt to changing environments in real time, where relationships of topic evolution, fusion, death, and novelty are identified. The main result of the method is a map of scientific evolutionary pathways. The visual routines provide a way to indicate the interactions among scientific subjects and a version in a series of time slices helps further illustrate such evolutionary pathways in detail. The detailed outline offers sufficient statistical information to delve into scientific topics and routines and then helps address meaningful insights with the assistance of expert knowledge. This empirical study focuses on scientific proposals granted by the United States National Science Foundation, and demonstrates the feasibility and reliability. Our method could be widely applied to a range of science, technology, and innovation policy research, and offer insight into the evolutionary pathways of scientific activities."
290	Analysis of roles in engaging contentious online discussions in science	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"The prevalence of sites in which users can contribute content increases ordinary citizens' participation in emerging forms of knowledge sharing. This article investigates the practices associated with the roles of participants who actively contribute to the coproduction of knowledge in three online communities and how these roles differ in controversial and noncontroversial threads. The Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMR) vaccine was selected as a contentious scientific topic because of persistent belief about an alleged link between the vaccine and autism. Contributions to three online communities that engage mothers with young children were analyzed to identify participant roles. No consistent roles were evident in noncontroversial threads, but the role of mediator consistently appeared in controversial threads in all three communities. This study helps to articulate the roles played in online communities that engage in knowledge collaboration. The variety of roles in online communities has implications for both the study for practice and the design of information technologies."
291	Web citations in patents: Evidence of technological impact?	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Patents sometimes cite webpages either as general background to the problem being addressed or to identify prior publications that limit the scope of the patent granted. Counts of the number of patents citing an organization's website may therefore provide an indicator of its technological capacity or relevance. This article introduces methods to extract URL citations from patents and evaluates the usefulness of counts of patent web citations as a technology indicator. An analysis of patents citing 200 US universities or 177 UK universities found computer science and engineering departments to be frequently cited, as well as research-related webpages, such as Wikipedia, YouTube, or the Internet Archive. Overall, however, patent URL citations seem to be frequent enough to be useful for ranking major US and the top few UK universities if popular hosted subdomains are filtered out, but the hit count estimates on the first search engine results page should not be relied upon for accuracy."
292	"SlideShare presentations, citations, users, and trends: A professional site with academic and educational uses"	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"SlideShare is a free social website that aims to help users distribute and find presentations. Owned by LinkedIn since 2012, it targets a professional audience but may give value to scholarship through creating a long-term record of the content of talks. This article tests this hypothesis by analyzing sets of general and scholarly related SlideShare documents using content and citation analysis and popularity statistics reported on the site. The results suggest that academics, students, and teachers are a minority of SlideShare uploaders, especially since 2010, with most documents not being directly related to scholarship or teaching. About two thirds of uploaded SlideShare documents are presentation slides, with the remainder often being files associated with presentations or video recordings of talks. SlideShare is therefore a presentation-centered site with a predominantly professional user base. Although a minority of the uploaded SlideShare documents are cited by, or cite, academic publications, probably too few articles are cited by SlideShare to consider extracting SlideShare citations for research evaluation. Nevertheless, scholars should consider SlideShare to be a potential source of academic and nonacademic information, particularly in library and information science, education, and business."
293	Goodreads reviews to assess the wider impacts of books	2017	Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology	"Although peer-review and citation counts are commonly used to help assess the scholarly impact of published research, informal reader feedback might also be exploited to help assess the wider impacts of books, such as their educational or cultural value. The social website Goodreads seems to be a reasonable source for this purpose because it includes a large number of book reviews and ratings by many users inside and outside of academia. To check this, Goodreads book metrics were compared with different book-based impact indicators for 15,928 academic books across broad fields. Goodreads engagements were numerous enough in the arts (85% of books had at least one), humanities (80%), and social sciences (67%) for use as a source of impact evidence. Low and moderate correlations between Goodreads book metrics and scholarly or non-scholarly indicators suggest that reader feedback in Goodreads reflects the many purposes of books rather than a single type of impact. Although Goodreads book metrics can be manipulated, they could be used guardedly by academics, authors, and publishers in evaluations."
